<title = "Art can heal PTSD's invisible wounds">
<tags = "['PTSD', 'TEDMED', 'art', 'creativity', 'depression', 'humanity', 'illness', 'mental health', 'mind', 'pain', 'violence', 'visualizations', 'war']">
<occupation = "Creative arts therapist">
you are a high-ranking military service member deployed to afghanistan. you are responsible for the lives of hundreds of men and women, and your base is under attack. incoming mortar rounds are exploding all around you. struggling to see through the dust and the smoke, you do your best to assist the wounded and then crawl to a nearby bunker.conscious but dazed by the blasts, you lay on your side and attempt to process what has just happened. as you regain your vision, you see a bloody face staring back at you. the image is terrifying, but you quickly come to understand it's not real.this vision continues to visit you multiple times a day and in your sleep. you choose not to tell anyone for fear of losing your job or being seen as weak. you give the vision a name, bloody face in bunker, and call it bfib for short. you keep bfib locked away in your mind, secretly haunting you, for the next seven years.now close your eyes. can you see bfib? if you can, you're beginning to see the face of the invisible wounds of war, commonly known as post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.while i can't say i have post-traumatic stress disorder, i've never been a stranger to it.when i was a little girl, i would visit my grandparents every summer. it was my grandfather who introduced me to the effects of combat on the psyche. while my grandfather was serving as a marine in the korean war, a bullet pierced his neck and rendered him unable to cry out. he watched as a corpsman passed him over, declaring him a goner, and then leaving him to die.years later, after his physical wounds had healed and he'd returned home, he rarely spoke of his experiences in waking life. but at night i would hear him shouting obscenities from his room down the hall. and during the day i would announce myself as i entered the room, careful not to startle or agitate him. he lived out the remainder of his days isolated and tight-lipped, never finding a way to express himself, and i didn't yet have the tools to guide him.i wouldn't have a name for my grandfather's condition until i was in my 20s. seeking a graduate degree in art therapy, i naturally gravitated towards the study of trauma. and while sitting in class learning about post-traumatic stress disorder, or ptsd for short, my mission to help service members who suffered like my grandfather began to take form.we've had various names for post-traumatic stress throughout the history of war: homesickness, soldier's heart, shell shock, thousand-yard stare, for instance. and while i was pursuing my degree, a new war was raging, and thanks to modern body armor and military vehicles, service members were surviving blast injuries they wouldn't have before. but the invisible wounds were reaching new levels, and this pushed military doctors and researchers to try and truly understand the effects that traumatic brain injury, or tbi, and ptsd have on the brain.due to advances in technology and neuroimaging, we now know there's an actual shutdown in the broca's, or the speech-language area of the brain, after an individual experiences trauma. this physiological change, or speechless terror as it's often called, coupled with mental health stigma, the fear of being judged or misunderstood, possibly even removed from their current duties, has led to the invisible struggles of our servicemen and women. generation after generation of veterans have chosen not to talk about their experiences, and suffer in solitude.i had my work cut out for me when i got my first job as an art therapist at the nation's largest military medical center, walter reed. after working for a few years on a locked-in patient psychiatric unit, i eventually transferred to the national intrepid center of excellence, nicoe, which leads tbi care for active duty service members. now, i believed in art therapy, but i was going to have to convince service members, big, tough, strong, manly military men, and some women too, to give art-making as a psychotherapeutic intervention a try.the results have been nothing short of spectacular. vivid, symbolic artwork is being created by our servicemen and women, and every work of art tells a story. we've observed that the process of art therapy bypasses the speech-language issue with the brain. art-making accesses the same sensory areas of the brain that encode trauma. service members can use the art-making to work through their experiences in a nonthreatening way. they can then apply words to their physical creations, reintegrating the left and the right hemispheres of the brain.now, we've seen this can work with all forms of art — drawing, painting, collage — but what seems to have the most impact is mask-making. finally, these invisible wounds don't just have a name, they have a face.and when service members create these masks, it allows them to come to grips, literally, with their trauma. and it's amazing how often that enables them to break through the trauma and start to heal.remember bfib? that was a real experience for one of my patients, and when he created his mask, he was able to let go of that haunting image. initially, it was a daunting process for the service member, but eventually he began to think of bfib as the mask, not his internal wound, and he would go to leave each session, he would hand me the mask, and say, "melissa, take care of him." eventually, we placed bfib in a box to further contain him, and when the service member went to leave the nicoe, he chose to leave bfib behind. a year later, he had only seen bfib twice, and both times bfib was smiling and the service member didn't feel anxious. now, whenever that service member is haunted by some traumatic memory, he continues to paint. every time he paints these disturbing images, he sees them less or not at all.philosophers have told us for thousands of years that the power to create is very closely linked to the power to destroy. now science is showing us that the part of the brain that registers a traumatic wound can be the part of the brain where healing happens too. and art therapy is showing us how to make that connection.we asked one of our service members to describe how mask-making impacted his treatment, and this is what he had to say.(video) service member: you sort of just zone out into the mask. you zone out into the drawing, and for me, it just released the block, so i was able to do it. and then when i looked at it after two days, i was like, "holy crap, here's the picture, here's the key, here's the puzzle," and then from there it just soared. i mean, from there my treatment just when out of sight, because they were like, kurt, explain this, explain this. and for the first time in 23 years, i could actually talk about stuff openly to, like, anybody. i could talk to you about it right now if i wanted to, because it unlocked it. it's just amazing. and it allowed me to put 23 years of ptsd and tbi stuff together in one place that has never happened before. sorry.melissa walker: over the past five years, we've had over 1,000 masks made. it's pretty amazing, isn't it?thank you. i wish i could have shared this process with my grandfather, but i know that he would be thrilled that we are finding ways to help today's and tomorrow's service members heal, and finding the resources within them that they can call upon to heal themselves.thank you. <title = "5 ways to lead in an era of constant change">
<tags = "['business', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'innovation', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'potential', 'success', 'work']">
<occupation = "Organizational change expert">
have you ever noticed when you ask someone to talk about a change they're making for the better in their personal lives, they're often really energetic? whether it's training for a marathon, picking up an old hobby, or learning a new skill, for most people, self-transformation projects occupy a very positive emotional space.self-transformation is empowering, energizing, even exhilarating. i mean just take a look at some of the titles of self-help books: "awaken the giant within," "practicing the power of now," or here's a great one we can all relate to, "you are a badass: how to stop doubting your greatness and start living an awesome life." when it comes to self-transformation, you can't help but get a sense of the excitement. but there's another type of transformation that occupies a very different emotional space. the transformation of organizations. if you're like most people, when you hear the words "our organization is going to start a transformation," you're thinking, "uh-oh." "layoffs." the blood drains from your face, your mind goes into overdrive, frantically searching for some place to run and hide.well, you can run, but you really can't hide. most of us spend the majority of our waking hours involved in organizations. and due to changes in globalization, changes due to advances in technology and other factors, the reality is our organizations are constantly having to adapt. in fact, i call this the era of "always-on" transformation.when i shared this idea with my wife nicola, she said, "always-on transformation? that sounds exhausting." and that may be exactly what you're thinking — and you would be right. particularly if we continue to approach the transformation of organizations the way we always have been.but because we can't hide, we need to sort out two things. first, why is transformation so exhausting? and second, how do we fix it?first of all, let's acknowledge that change is hard. people naturally resist change, especially when it's imposed on them. but there are things that organizations do that make change even harder and more exhausting for people than it needs to be. first of all, leaders often wait too long to act. as a result, everything is happening in crisis mode. which, of course, tends to be exhausting. or, given the urgency, what they'll do is they'll just focus on the short-term results, but that doesn't give any hope for the future. or they'll just take a superficial, one-off approach, hoping that they can return back to business as usual as soon as the crisis is over.this kind of approach is kind of the way some students approach preparing for standardized tests. in order to get test scores to go up, teachers will end up teaching to the test. now, that approach can work; test results often do go up. but it fails the fundamental goal of education: to prepare students to succeed over the long term.so given these obstacles, what can we do to transform the way we transform organizations so rather than being exhausting, it's actually empowering and energizing? to do that, we need to focus on five strategic imperatives, all of which have one thing in common: putting people first.the first imperative for putting people first is to inspire through purpose. most transformations have financial and operational goals. these are important and they can be energizing to leaders, but they tend not to be very motivating to most people in the organization. to motivate more broadly, the transformation needs to connect with a deeper sense of purpose.take lego. the lego group has become an extraordinary global company. under their very capable leadership, they've actually undergone a series of transformations. while each of these has had a very specific focus, the north star, linking and guiding all of them, has been lego's powerful purpose: inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow. expanding globally? it's not about increasing sales, but about giving millions of additional children access to lego building bricks. investment and innovation? it's not about developing new products, but about enabling more children to experience the joy of learning through play. not surprisingly, that deep sense of purpose tends to be highly motivating to lego's people.the second imperative for putting people first is to go all in. too many transformations are nothing more than head-count cutting exercises; layoffs under the guise of transformation. in the face of relentless competition, it may well be that you will have to take the painful decision to downsize the organization, just as you may have to lose some weight in order to run a marathon. but losing weight alone will not get you across the finish line with a winning time. to win you need to go all in. you need to go all in. rather than just cutting costs, you need to think about initiatives that will enable you to win in the medium term, initiatives to drive growth, actions that will fundamentally change the way the company operates, and very importantly, investments to develop the leadership and the talent.the third imperative for putting people first is to enable people with the capabilities that they need to succeed during the transformation and beyond. over the years i've competed in a number of triathlons. you know, frankly, i'm not that good, but i do have one distinct capability; i am remarkably fast at finding my bike. by the time i finish the swim, almost all the bikes are already gone. real triathletes know that each leg — the swim, the bike, the run — really requires different capabilities, different tools, different skills, different techniques. likewise when we transform organizations, we need to be sure that we're giving our people the skills and the tools they need along the way.chronos, a global software company, recognized the need to transfer from building products — software products — to building software as a service. to enable its people to take that transformation, first of all they invested in new tools that would enable their employees to monitor the usage of the features as well as customer satisfaction with the new service. they also invested in skill development, so that their employees would be able to resolve customer service problems on the spot. and very importantly, they also reinforced the collaborative behaviors that would be required to deliver an end-to-end seamless customer experience. because of these investments, rather than feeling overwhelmed by the transformation, chronos employees actually felt energized and empowered in their new roles.in the era of "always-on" transformation, change is a constant. my fourth imperative therefore is to instill a culture of continuous learning. when satya nadella became the ceo of microsoft in february 2014, he embarked on an ambitious transformation journey to prepare the company to compete in a mobile-first, cloud-first world. this included changes to strategy, the organization and very importantly, the culture. microsoft's culture at the time was one of silos and internal competition — not exactly conducive to learning. nadella took this head-on. he rallied his leadership around his vision for a living, learning culture, shifting from a fixed mindset, where your role was to show up as the smartest person in the room, to a growth mindset, where your role was to listen, to learn and to bring out the best in people. well, early days, microsoft employees already noticed this shift in the culture — clear evidence of microsoft putting people first.my fifth and final imperative is specifically for leaders. in a transformation, a leader needs to have a vision, a clear road map with milestones, and then you need to hold people accountable for results. in other words, you need to be directive. but in order to capture the hearts and minds of people, you also need to be inclusive. inclusive leadership is critical to putting people first.i live in the san francisco bay area. and right now, our basketball team is the best in the league. we won the 2015 championship, and we're favored to win again this year. there are many explanations for this. they have some fabulous players, but one of the key reasons is their head coach, steve kerr, is an inclusive leader. when kerr came to the warriors in 2014, the warriors were looking for a major transformation. they hadn't won a national championship since 1975.kerr came in, and he had a clear vision, and he immediately got to work. from the outset, he reached out and engaged the players and the staff. he created an environment of open debate and solicited suggestions. during games he would often ask, "what are you seeing that i'm missing?"one the best examples of this came in game four of the 2015 finals. the warriors were down two games to one when kerr made the decision to change the starting lineup; a bold move by any measure. the warriors won the game and went on to win the championship. and it is widely viewed that that move was the pivotal move in their victory.interestingly, it wasn't actually kerr's idea. it was the idea of his 28-year-old assistant, nick u'ren. because of kerr's leadership style, u'ren felt comfortable bringing the idea forward. and kerr not only listened, but he implemented the idea and then afterwards, gave u'ren all the credit — actions all consistent with kerr's highly inclusive approach to leadership.in the era of "always-on" transformation, organizations are always going to be transforming. but doing so does not have to be exhausting. we owe it to ourselves, to our organizations and to society more broadly to boldly transform our approach to transformation. to do that, we need to start putting people first.thank you. <title = "Ballroom dance that breaks gender roles">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'art', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'culture', 'dance', 'entertainment', 'gender', 'identity', 'performance', 'performance art', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Artistic director">
(music) trevor copp: when "dancing with the stars" first hit the airwaves, that is not what it looked like. jeff and i were full-time ballroom dance instructors when the big tv ballroom revival hit, and this was incredible. i mean, one day we would say "foxtrot," and people were like "foxes trotting." and the next day they were telling us the finer points of a good feather step. and this blew our minds. i mean, all of the ballroom dance geeking out that we had always done on why salsa worked differently than the competitive rumba and why tango traveled unlike the waltz, all of that just hit the public consciousness, and it changed everything.but running parallel to this excitement, the excitement that suddenly, somehow, we were cool — there was also this reservation. why this and why now?jeff fox: when trevor and i would get together for training seminars or just for fun, we'd toss each other around, mix it up, take a break from having to lead all the time. we even came up with a system for switching lead and follow while we were dancing, as a way of taking turns and playing fair. it wasn't until we used that system as part of a performance in a small festival that we got an important tap on the shoulder. lisa o'connell, a dramaturge and director of a playwright center, pulled us aside after the show and said, "do you have any idea how political that was?" so that began an eight-year collaboration to create a play which not only further developed our system for switching but also explored the impact of being locked into a single role, and what's worse, being defined by that single role.tc: because, of course, classic latin and ballroom dancing isn't just a system of dancing; it's a way of thinking, of being, of relating to each other that captured a whole period's values. there's one thing that stayed consistent, though: the man leads and the woman follows. so street salsa, championship tango, it's all the same — he leads, she follows.so this was gender training. you weren't just learning to dance — you were learning to "man" and to "woman." it's a relic. and in the way of relics, you don't throw it out, but you need to know that this is the past. this isn't the present. it's like shakespeare: respect it, revive it — great! but know that this is history. this doesn't represent how we think today.so we asked ourselves: if you strip it all down, what is at the core of partner dancing?jf: well, the core principle of partner dancing is that one person leads, the other one follows. the machine works the same, regardless of who's playing which role. the physics of movement doesn't really give a crap about your gender. so if we were to update the existing form, we would need to make it more representative of how we interact here, now, in 2015. when you watch ballroom, don't just watch what's there. watch what's not. the couple is always only a man and a woman. together. only. ever. so, same-sex and gender nonconformist couples just disappear. in most mainstream international ballroom competitions, same-sex couples are rarely recognized on the floor, and in many cases, the rules prohibit them completely.tc: try this: google-image, "professional latin dancer," and then look for an actual latino person. you'll be there for days. what you will get is page after page of white, straight russian couples spray-tanned to the point of mahogany. there are no black people, there are no asians, no mixed-race couples, so basically, non-white people just disappeared.even within the white-straight- couple-only paradigm — she can't be taller, he can't be shorter. she can't be bolder, he can't be gentler.if you were to take a ballroom dance and translate that into a conversation and drop that into a movie, we, as a culture, would never stand for this. he dictates, she reacts. no relationship — gay, straight or anything — that we would regard as remotely healthy or functional looks like that, and yet somehow, you put it on prime time, you slap some makeup on it, throw the glitter on, put it out there as movement, not as text, and we, as a culture, tune in and clap. we are applauding our own absence. too many people have disappeared from partner dancing.(music) jf: now, you just saw two men dancing together. and you thought it looked ... a little strange. interesting — appealing, even — but a little bit odd. even avid followers of the same-sex ballroom circuit can attest that while same-sex partner dancing can be dynamic and strong and exciting, it just doesn't quite seem to fit. aesthetically speaking, if alida and i take the classic closed ballroom hold ... this is considered beautiful. but why not this? see, the standard image that the leader must be larger and masculine and the follower smaller and feminine — this is a stumbling point.tc: so we wanted to look at this from a totally different angle. so, what if we could keep the idea of lead and follow but toss the idea that this was connected to gender? further, what if a couple could lead and follow each other and then switch? and then switch back? what if it could be like a conversation, taking turns listening and speaking, just like we do in life? what if we could dance like that? we call it "liquid lead dancing."jf: let's try this with a latin dance, salsa. in salsa, there's a key transitional step, called the cross-body lead. we use it as punctuation to break up the improvisation. it can be a little tricky to spot if you're not used to looking for it, so here it is. one more time for the cheap seats. and here's the action one more time, nice and slow. now, if we apply liquid-lead thinking to this transitional step, the cross-body lead becomes a point where the lead and the follow can switch. the person following can elect to take over the lead, or the person leading can choose to surrender it, essentially making it a counter-cross-body lead. here's how that looks in slow motion. and here's how it looked when we danced it in the opening dance.with this simple tweak, the dance moves from being a dictation to a negotiation. anyone can lead. anyone can follow. and more importantly, you can change your mind. now, this is only one example of how this applies, but once the blinkers come off, anything can happen.tc: let's look at how liquid lead thinking could apply to a classic waltz. because, of course, it isn't just a system of switching leads; it's a way of thinking that can actually make the dance itself more efficient.so: the waltz. the waltz is a turning dance. this means that for the lead, you spend half of the dance traveling backwards, completely blind. and because of the follower's position, basically, no one can see where they're going. so you're out here on the floor, and then imagine that coming right at you.jf: raaaaaah! tc: there are actually a lot of accidents out there that happen as a result of this blind spot. but what if the partners were to just allow for a switch of posture for a moment? a lot of accidents could be avoided. even if one person led the whole dance but allowed this switch to happen, it would be a lot safer, while at the same time, offering new aesthetics into the waltz. because physics doesn't give a damn about your gender. jf: now, we've danced liquid lead in clubs, convention centers and as part of "first dance," the play we created with lisa, on stages in north america and in europe. and it never fails to engage. i mean, beyond the unusual sight of seeing two men dancing together, it always evokes and engages. but why?the secret lies in what made lisa see our initial demonstration as "political." it wasn't just that we were switching lead and follow; it's that we stayed consistent in our presence, our personality and our power, regardless of which role we were playing. we were still us.and that's where the true freedom lies — not just the freedom to switch roles, but the freedom from being defined by whichever role you're playing, the freedom to always remain true to yourself. forget what a lead is supposed to look like, or a follow. be a masculine follow or a feminine lead. just be yourself. obviously, this applies off the dance floor as well, but on the floor, it gives us the perfect opportunity to update an old paradigm, reinvigorate an old relic, and make it more representative of our era and our current way of being.tc: jeff and i dance partner dancing all the time with women and men and we love it. but we dance with a consciousness that this is a historic form that can produce silence and produce invisibility across the spectrum of identity that we enjoy today. we invented liquid lead as a way of stripping out all the ideas that don't belong to us and taking partner dancing back to what it really always was: the fine art of taking care of each other.(music) <title = "We've stopped trusting institutions and started trusting strangers">
<tags = "['behavioral economics', 'blockchain', 'business', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'data', 'economics', 'innovation', 'money', 'potential', 'society', 'technology', 'trust']">
<occupation = "Trust researcher">
let's talk about trust. we all know trust is fundamental, but when it comes to trusting people, something profound is happening.please raise your hand if you have ever been a host or a guest on airbnb. wow. that's a lot of you.who owns bitcoin? still a lot of you. ok.and please raise your hand if you've ever used tinder to help you find a mate. this one's really hard to count because you're kind of going like this. these are all examples of how technology is creating new mechanisms that are enabling us to trust unknown people, companies and ideas. and yet at the same time, trust in institutions — banks, governments and even churches — is collapsing. so what's happening here, and who do you trust?let's start in france with a platform — with a company, i should say — with a rather funny-sounding name, blablacar. it's a platform that matches drivers and passengers who want to share long-distance journeys together. the average ride taken is 320 kilometers. so it's a good idea to choose your fellow travelers wisely. social profiles and reviews help people make a choice. you can see if someone's a smoker, you can see what kind of music they like, you can see if they're going to bring their dog along for the ride. but it turns out that the key social identifier is how much you're going to talk in the car. bla, not a lot, bla bla, you want a nice bit of chitchat, and bla bla bla, you're not going to stop talking the entire way from london to paris. it's remarkable, right, that this idea works at all, because it's counter to the lesson most of us were taught as a child: never get in a car with a stranger. and yet, blablacar transports more than four million people every single month. to put that in context, that's more passengers than the eurostar or jetblue airlines carry. blablacar is a beautiful illustration of how technology is enabling millions of people across the world to take a trust leap.a trust leap happens when we take the risk to do something new or different to the way that we've always done it. let's try to visualize this together. ok. i want you to close your eyes. there is a man staring at me with his eyes wide open. i'm on this big red circle. i can see. so close your eyes.  i'll do it with you. and i want you to imagine there exists a gap between you and something unknown. that unknown can be someone you've just met. it can be a place you've never been to. it can be something you've never tried before. you got it? ok. you can open your eyes now. for you to leap from a place of certainty, to take a chance on that someone or something unknown, you need a force to pull you over the gap, and that remarkable force is trust.trust is an elusive concept, and yet we depend on it for our lives to function. i trust my children when they say they're going to turn the lights out at night. i trusted the pilot who flew me here to keep me safe. it's a word we use a lot, without always thinking about what it really means and how it works in different contexts of our lives.there are, in fact, hundreds of definitions of trust, and most can be reduced to some kind of risk assessment of how likely it is that things will go right. but i don't like this definition of trust, because it makes trust sound rational and predictable, and it doesn't really get to the human essence of what it enables us to do and how it empowers us to connect with other people.so i define trust a little differently. i define trust as a confident relationship to the unknown. now, when you view trust through this lens, it starts to explain why it has the unique capacity to enable us to cope with uncertainty, to place our faith in strangers, to keep moving forward.human beings are remarkable at taking trust leaps. do you remember the first time you put your credit card details into a website? that's a trust leap. i distinctly remember telling my dad that i wanted to buy a navy blue secondhand peugeot on ebay, and he rightfully pointed out that the seller's name was "invisible wizard" and that this probably was not such a good idea. so my work, my research focuses on how technology is transforming the social glue of society, trust between people, and it's a fascinating area to study, because there's still so much we do not know. for instance, do men and women trust differently in digital environments? does the way we build trust face-to-face translate online? does trust transfer? so if you trust finding a mate on tinder, are you more likely to trust finding a ride on blablacar?but from studying hundreds of networks and marketplaces, there is a common pattern that people follow, and i call it "climbing the trust stack." let me use blablacar as an example to bring it to life. on the first level, you have to trust the idea. so you have to trust the idea of ride-sharing is safe and worth trying. the second level is about having confidence in the platform, that blablacar will help you if something goes wrong. and the third level is about using little bits of information to decide whether the other person is trustworthy.now, the first time we climb the trust stack, it feels weird, even risky, but we get to a point where these ideas seem totally normal. our behaviors transform, often relatively quickly. in other words, trust enables change and innovation.so an idea that intrigued me, and i'd like you to consider, is whether we can better understand major waves of disruption and change in individuals in society through the lens of trust. well, it turns out that trust has only evolved in three significant chapters throughout the course of human history: local, institutional and what we're now entering, distributed.so for a long time, until the mid-1800s, trust was built around tight-knit relationships. so say i lived in a village with the first five rows of this audience, and we all knew one another, and say i wanted to borrow money. the man who had his eyes wide open, he might lend it to me, and if i didn't pay him back, you'd all know i was dodgy. i would get a bad reputation, and you would refuse to do business with me in the future. trust was mostly local and accountability-based.in the mid-19th century, society went through a tremendous amount of change. people moved to fast-growing cities such as london and san francisco, and a local banker here was replaced by large corporations that didn't know us as individuals. we started to place our trust into black box systems of authority, things like legal contracts and regulation and insurance, and less trust directly in other people. trust became institutional and commission-based.it's widely talked about how trust in institutions and many corporate brands has been steadily declining and continues to do so. i am constantly stunned by major breaches of trust: the news corp phone hacking, the volkswagen emissions scandal, the widespread abuse in the catholic church, the fact that only one measly banker went to jail after the great financial crisis, or more recently the panama papers that revealed how the rich can exploit offshore tax regimes. and the thing that really surprises me is why do leaders find it so hard to apologize, i mean sincerely apologize, when our trust is broken?it would be easy to conclude that institutional trust isn't working because we are fed up with the sheer audacity of dishonest elites, but what's happening now runs deeper than the rampant questioning of the size and structure of institutions. we're starting to realize that institutional trust wasn't designed for the digital age. conventions of how trust is built, managed, lost and repaired — in brands, leaders and entire systems — is being turned upside down.now, this is exciting, but it's frightening, because it forces many of us to have to rethink how trust is built and destroyed with our customers, with our employees, even our loved ones.the other day, i was talking to the ceo of a leading international hotel brand, and as is often the case, we got onto the topic of airbnb. and he admitted to me that he was perplexed by their success. he was perplexed at how a company that depends on the willingness of strangers to trust one another could work so well across 191 countries. so i said to him that i had a confession to make, and he looked at me a bit strangely, and i said — and i'm sure many of you do this as well — i don't always bother to hang my towels up when i'm finished in the hotel, but i would never do this as a guest on airbnb. and the reason why i would never do this as a guest on airbnb is because guests know that they'll be rated by hosts, and that those ratings are likely to impact their ability to transact in the future. it's a simple illustration of how online trust will change our behaviors in the real world, make us more accountable in ways we cannot yet even imagine.i am not saying we do not need hotels or traditional forms of authority. but what we cannot deny is that the way trust flows through society is changing, and it's creating this big shift away from the 20th century that was defined by institutional trust towards the 21st century that will be fueled by distributed trust. trust is no longer top-down. it's being unbundled and inverted. it's no longer opaque and linear. a new recipe for trust is emerging that once again is distributed amongst people and is accountability-based.and this shift is only going to accelerate with the emergence of the blockchain, the innovative ledger technology underpinning bitcoin. now let's be honest, getting our heads around the way blockchain works is mind-blowing. and one of the reasons why is it involves processing some pretty complicated concepts with terrible names. i mean, cryptographic algorithms and hash functions, and people called miners, who verify transactions — all that was created by this mysterious person or persons called satoshi nakamoto. now, that is a massive trust leap that hasn't happened yet. but let's try to imagine this. so "the economist" eloquently described the blockchain as the great chain of being sure about things. the easiest way i can describe it is imagine the blocks as spreadsheets, and they are filled with assets. so that could be a property title. it could be a stock trade. it could be a creative asset, such as the rights to a song. every time something moves from one place on the register to somewhere else, that asset transfer is time-stamped and publicly recorded on the blockchain. it's that simple. right.so the real implication of the blockchain is that it removes the need for any kind of third party, such as a lawyer, or a trusted intermediary, or maybe not a government intermediary to facilitate the exchange. so if we go back to the trust stack, you still have to trust the idea, you have to trust the platform, but you don't have to trust the other person in the traditional sense.the implications are huge. in the same way the internet blew open the doors to an age of information available to everyone, the blockchain will revolutionize trust on a global scale.now, i've waited to the end intentionally to mention uber, because i recognize that it is a contentious and widely overused example, but in the context of a new era of trust, it's a great case study. now, we will see cases of abuse of distributed trust. we've already seen this, and it can go horribly wrong. i am not surprised that we are seeing protests from taxi associations all around the world trying to get governments to ban uber based on claims that it is unsafe. i happened to be in london the day that these protests took place, and i happened to notice a tweet from matt hancock, who is a british minister for business.and he wrote, "does anyone have details of this #uber app everyone's talking about? i'd never heard of it until today."now, the taxi associations, they legitimized the first layer of the trust stack. they legitimized the idea that they were trying to eliminate, and sign-ups increased by 850 percent in 24 hours. now, this is a really strong illustration of how once a trust shift has happened around a behavior or an entire sector, you cannot reverse the story. every day, five million people will take a trust leap and ride with uber. in china, on didi, the ride-sharing platform, 11 million rides taken every day. that's 127 rides per second, showing that this is a cross-cultural phenomenon.and the fascinating thing is that both drivers and passengers report that seeing a name and seeing someone's photo and their rating makes them feel safer, and as you may have experienced, even behave a little more nicely in the taxi cab. uber and didi are early but powerful examples of how technology is creating trust between people in ways and on a scale never possible before.today, many of us are comfortable getting into cars driven by strangers. we meet up with someone we swiped right to be matched with. we share our homes with people we do not know.this is just the beginning, because the real disruption happening isn't technological. it's the trust shift it creates, and for my part, i want to help people understand this new era of trust so that we can get it right and we can embrace the opportunities to redesign systems that are more transparent, inclusive and accountable.thank you very much. thank you. <title = "A temporary tattoo that brings hospital care to the home">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'algorithm', 'communication', 'data', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'innovation', 'invention', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Bioelectronics innovator﻿">
please meet jane. she has a high-risk pregnancy. within 24 weeks, she's on bed rest at the hospital, being monitored for her preterm contractions.she doesn't look the happiest. that's in part because it requires technicians and experts to apply these clunky belts on her to monitor her uterine contractions. another reason jane is not so happy is because she's worried. in particular, she's worried about what happens after her 10-day stay on bed rest at the hospital. what happens when she's home? if she were to give birth this early it would be devastating. as an african-american woman, she's twice as likely to have a premature birth or to have a stillbirth. so jane basically has one of two options: stay at the hospital on bed rest, a prisoner to the technology until she gives birth, and then spend the rest of her life paying for the bill; or head home after her 10-day stay and hope for the best. neither of these two options seems appealing.as i began to think about stories like this and hear about stories like this, i began to ask myself and imagine: is there an alternative? is there a way we could have the benefits of high-fidelity monitoring that we get with our trusted partners in the hospital while someone is at home living their daily life?with that in mind, i encouraged people in my research group to partner with some clever material scientists, and all of us came together and brainstormed. and after a long process, we came up with a vision, an idea, of a wearable system that perhaps you could wear like a piece of jewelry or you could apply to yourself like a band-aid. and after many trials and tribulations and years of endeavors, we were able to come up with this flexible electronic patch that was manufactured using the same processes that they use to build computer chips, except the electronics are transferred from a semiconductor wafer onto a flexible material that can interface with the human body.these systems are about the thickness of a human hair. they can measure the types of information that we want, things such as: bodily movement, bodily temperature, electrical rhythms of the body and so forth. we can also engineer these systems, so they can integrate energy sources, and can have wireless transmission capabilities.so as we began to build these types of systems, we began to test them on ourselves in our research group. but in addition, we began to reach out to some of our clinical partners in san diego, and test these on different patients in different clinical conditions, including moms-to-be like jane.here is a picture of a pregnant woman in labor at our university hospital being monitored for her uterine contractions with the conventional belt. in addition, our flexible electronic patches are there. this picture demonstrates waveforms pertaining to the fetal heart rate, where the red corresponds to what was acquired with the conventional belts, and the blue corresponds to our estimates using our flexible electronic systems and our algorithms.at this moment, we gave ourselves a big mental high five. some of the things we had imagined were beginning to come to fruition, and we were actually seeing this in a clinical context.but there was still a problem. the problem was, the way we manufactured these systems was very inefficient, had low yield and was very error-prone. in addition, as we talked to some of the nurses in the hospital, they encouraged us to make sure that our electronics worked with typical medical adhesives that are used in a hospital. we had an epiphany and said, "wait a minute. rather than just making them work with adhesives, let's integrate them into adhesives, and that could solve our manufacturing problem."this picture that you see here is our ability to embed these censors inside of a piece of scotch tape by simply peeling it off of a wafer. ongoing work in our research group allows us to, in addition, embed integrated circuits into the flexible adhesives to do things like amplifying signals and digitizing them, processing them and encoding for wireless transmission. all of this integrated into the same medical adhesives that are used in the hospital.so when we reached this point, we had some other challenges, from both an engineering as well as a usability perspective, to make sure that we could make it used practically.in many digital health discussions, people believe in and embrace the idea that we can simply digitize the data, wirelessly transmit it, send it to the cloud, and in the cloud, we can extract meaningful information for interpretation. and indeed, you can do all of that, if you're not worried about some of the energy challenges. think about jane for a moment. she doesn't live in palo alto, nor does she live in beverly hills. what that means is, we have to be mindful about her data plan and how much it would cost for her to be sending out a continuous stream of data.there's another challenge that not everyone in the medical profession is comfortable talking about. and that is, that jane does not have the most trust in the medical establishment. she, people like her, her ancestors, have not had the best experiences at the hands of doctors and the hospital or insurance companies. that means that we have to be mindful of questions of privacy. jane might not feel that happy about all that data being processed into the cloud. and jane cannot be fooled; she reads the news. she knows that if the federal government can be hacked, if the fortune 500 can be hacked, so can her doctor.and so with that in mind, we had an epiphany. we cannot outsmart all the hackers in the world, but perhaps we can present them a smaller target. what if we could actually, rather than have those algorithms that do data interpretation run in the cloud, what if we have those algorithms run on those small integrated circuits embedded into those adhesives?and so when we integrate these things together, what this means is that now we can think about the future where someone like jane can still go about living her normal daily life, she can be monitored, it can be done in a way where she doesn't have to get another job to pay her data plan, and we can also address some of her concerns about privacy.so at this point, we're feeling very good about ourselves. we've accomplished this, we've begun to address some of these questions about privacy and we feel like, pretty much the chapter is closed now. everyone lived happily ever after, right? well, not so fast. one of the things we have to remember, as i mentioned earlier, is that jane does not have the most trust in the medical establishment. we have to remember that there are increasing and widening health disparities, and there's inequity in terms of proper care management. and so what that means is that this simple picture of jane and her data — even with her being comfortable being wirelessly transmitted to the cloud, letting a doctor intervene if necessary — is not the whole story.so what we're beginning to do is to think about ways to have trusted parties serve as intermediaries between people like jane and her health care providers. for example, we've begun to partner with churches and to think about nurses that are church members, that come from that trusted community, as patient advocates and health coaches to people like jane.another thing we have going for us is that insurance companies, increasingly, are attracted to some of these ideas. they're increasingly realizing that perhaps it's better to pay one dollar now for a wearable device and a health coach, rather than paying 10 dollars later, when that baby is born prematurely and ends up in the neonatal intensive care unit — one of the most expensive parts of a hospital.this has been a long learning process for us. this iterative process of breaking through and attacking one problem and not feeling totally comfortable, and identifying the next problem, has helped us go along this path of actually trying to not only innovate with this technology but make sure it can be used for people who perhaps need it the most.another learning lesson we've taken from this process that is very humbling, is that as technology progresses and advances at an accelerating rate, we have to remember that human beings are using this technology, and we have to be mindful that these human beings — they have a face, they have a name and a life. and in the case of jane, hopefully, two.thank you. <title = "Machine intelligence makes human morals more important">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'choice', 'computers', 'data', 'decision-making', 'humanity', 'intelligence', 'machine learning', 'morality', 'potential', 'privacy', 'robots', 'science', 'society', 'software', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Techno-sociologist">
so, i started my first job as a computer programmer in my very first year of college — basically, as a teenager.soon after i started working, writing software in a company, a manager who worked at the company came down to where i was, and he whispered to me, "can he tell if i'm lying?" there was nobody else in the room."can who tell if you're lying? and why are we whispering?"the manager pointed at the computer in the room. "can he tell if i'm lying?" well, that manager was having an affair with the receptionist. and i was still a teenager. so i whisper-shouted back to him, "yes, the computer can tell if you're lying." well, i laughed, but actually, the laugh's on me. nowadays, there are computational systems that can suss out emotional states and even lying from processing human faces. advertisers and even governments are very interested.i had become a computer programmer because i was one of those kids crazy about math and science. but somewhere along the line i'd learned about nuclear weapons, and i'd gotten really concerned with the ethics of science. i was troubled. however, because of family circumstances, i also needed to start working as soon as possible. so i thought to myself, hey, let me pick a technical field where i can get a job easily and where i don't have to deal with any troublesome questions of ethics. so i picked computers. well, ha, ha, ha! all the laughs are on me. nowadays, computer scientists are building platforms that control what a billion people see every day. they're developing cars that could decide who to run over. they're even building machines, weapons, that might kill human beings in war. it's ethics all the way down.machine intelligence is here. we're now using computation to make all sort of decisions, but also new kinds of decisions. we're asking questions to computation that have no single right answers, that are subjective and open-ended and value-laden.we're asking questions like, "who should the company hire?" "which update from which friend should you be shown?" "which convict is more likely to reoffend?" "which news item or movie should be recommended to people?"look, yes, we've been using computers for a while, but this is different. this is a historical twist, because we cannot anchor computation for such subjective decisions the way we can anchor computation for flying airplanes, building bridges, going to the moon. are airplanes safer? did the bridge sway and fall? there, we have agreed-upon, fairly clear benchmarks, and we have laws of nature to guide us. we have no such anchors and benchmarks for decisions in messy human affairs.to make things more complicated, our software is getting more powerful, but it's also getting less transparent and more complex. recently, in the past decade, complex algorithms have made great strides. they can recognize human faces. they can decipher handwriting. they can detect credit card fraud and block spam and they can translate between languages. they can detect tumors in medical imaging. they can beat humans in chess and go.much of this progress comes from a method called "machine learning." machine learning is different than traditional programming, where you give the computer detailed, exact, painstaking instructions. it's more like you take the system and you feed it lots of data, including unstructured data, like the kind we generate in our digital lives. and the system learns by churning through this data. and also, crucially, these systems don't operate under a single-answer logic. they don't produce a simple answer; it's more probabilistic: "this one is probably more like what you're looking for."now, the upside is: this method is really powerful. the head of google's ai systems called it, "the unreasonable effectiveness of data." the downside is, we don't really understand what the system learned. in fact, that's its power. this is less like giving instructions to a computer; it's more like training a puppy-machine-creature we don't really understand or control. so this is our problem. it's a problem when this artificial intelligence system gets things wrong. it's also a problem when it gets things right, because we don't even know which is which when it's a subjective problem. we don't know what this thing is thinking.so, consider a hiring algorithm — a system used to hire people, using machine-learning systems. such a system would have been trained on previous employees' data and instructed to find and hire people like the existing high performers in the company. sounds good. i once attended a conference that brought together human resources managers and executives, high-level people, using such systems in hiring. they were super excited. they thought that this would make hiring more objective, less biased, and give women and minorities a better shot against biased human managers.and look — human hiring is biased. i know. i mean, in one of my early jobs as a programmer, my immediate manager would sometimes come down to where i was really early in the morning or really late in the afternoon, and she'd say, "zeynep, let's go to lunch!" i'd be puzzled by the weird timing. it's 4pm. lunch? i was broke, so free lunch. i always went. i later realized what was happening. my immediate managers had not confessed to their higher-ups that the programmer they hired for a serious job was a teen girl who wore jeans and sneakers to work. i was doing a good job, i just looked wrong and was the wrong age and gender.so hiring in a gender- and race-blind way certainly sounds good to me. but with these systems, it is more complicated, and here's why: currently, computational systems can infer all sorts of things about you from your digital crumbs, even if you have not disclosed those things. they can infer your sexual orientation, your personality traits, your political leanings. they have predictive power with high levels of accuracy. remember — for things you haven't even disclosed. this is inference.i have a friend who developed such computational systems to predict the likelihood of clinical or postpartum depression from social media data. the results are impressive. her system can predict the likelihood of depression months before the onset of any symptoms — months before. no symptoms, there's prediction. she hopes it will be used for early intervention. great! but now put this in the context of hiring.so at this human resources managers conference, i approached a high-level manager in a very large company, and i said to her, "look, what if, unbeknownst to you, your system is weeding out people with high future likelihood of depression? they're not depressed now, just maybe in the future, more likely. what if it's weeding out women more likely to be pregnant in the next year or two but aren't pregnant now? what if it's hiring aggressive people because that's your workplace culture?" you can't tell this by looking at gender breakdowns. those may be balanced. and since this is machine learning, not traditional coding, there is no variable there labeled "higher risk of depression," "higher risk of pregnancy," "aggressive guy scale." not only do you not know what your system is selecting on, you don't even know where to begin to look. it's a black box. it has predictive power, but you don't understand it."what safeguards," i asked, "do you have to make sure that your black box isn't doing something shady?" she looked at me as if i had just stepped on 10 puppy tails. she stared at me and she said, "i don't want to hear another word about this." and she turned around and walked away. mind you — she wasn't rude. it was clearly: what i don't know isn't my problem, go away, death stare. look, such a system may even be less biased than human managers in some ways. and it could make monetary sense. but it could also lead to a steady but stealthy shutting out of the job market of people with higher risk of depression. is this the kind of society we want to build, without even knowing we've done this, because we turned decision-making to machines we don't totally understand?another problem is this: these systems are often trained on data generated by our actions, human imprints. well, they could just be reflecting our biases, and these systems could be picking up on our biases and amplifying them and showing them back to us, while we're telling ourselves, "we're just doing objective, neutral computation."researchers found that on google, women are less likely than men to be shown job ads for high-paying jobs. and searching for african-american names is more likely to bring up ads suggesting criminal history, even when there is none. such hidden biases and black-box algorithms that researchers uncover sometimes but sometimes we don't know, can have life-altering consequences.in wisconsin, a defendant was sentenced to six years in prison for evading the police. you may not know this, but algorithms are increasingly used in parole and sentencing decisions. he wanted to know: how is this score calculated? it's a commercial black box. the company refused to have its algorithm be challenged in open court. but propublica, an investigative nonprofit, audited that very algorithm with what public data they could find, and found that its outcomes were biased and its predictive power was dismal, barely better than chance, and it was wrongly labeling black defendants as future criminals at twice the rate of white defendants.so, consider this case: this woman was late picking up her godsister from a school in broward county, florida, running down the street with a friend of hers. they spotted an unlocked kid's bike and a scooter on a porch and foolishly jumped on it. as they were speeding off, a woman came out and said, "hey! that's my kid's bike!" they dropped it, they walked away, but they were arrested.she was wrong, she was foolish, but she was also just 18. she had a couple of juvenile misdemeanors. meanwhile, that man had been arrested for shoplifting in home depot — 85 dollars' worth of stuff, a similar petty crime. but he had two prior armed robbery convictions. but the algorithm scored her as high risk, and not him. two years later, propublica found that she had not reoffended. it was just hard to get a job for her with her record. he, on the other hand, did reoffend and is now serving an eight-year prison term for a later crime. clearly, we need to audit our black boxes and not have them have this kind of unchecked power. audits are great and important, but they don't solve all our problems. take facebook's powerful news feed algorithm — you know, the one that ranks everything and decides what to show you from all the friends and pages you follow. should you be shown another baby picture? a sullen note from an acquaintance? an important but difficult news item? there's no right answer. facebook optimizes for engagement on the site: likes, shares, comments.in august of 2014, protests broke out in ferguson, missouri, after the killing of an african-american teenager by a white police officer, under murky circumstances. the news of the protests was all over my algorithmically unfiltered twitter feed, but nowhere on my facebook. was it my facebook friends? i disabled facebook's algorithm, which is hard because facebook keeps wanting to make you come under the algorithm's control, and saw that my friends were talking about it. it's just that the algorithm wasn't showing it to me. i researched this and found this was a widespread problem.the story of ferguson wasn't algorithm-friendly. it's not "likable." who's going to click on "like?" it's not even easy to comment on. without likes and comments, the algorithm was likely showing it to even fewer people, so we didn't get to see this. instead, that week, facebook's algorithm highlighted this, which is the als ice bucket challenge. worthy cause; dump ice water, donate to charity, fine. but it was super algorithm-friendly. the machine made this decision for us. a very important but difficult conversation might have been smothered, had facebook been the only channel.now, finally, these systems can also be wrong in ways that don't resemble human systems. do you guys remember watson, ibm's machine-intelligence system that wiped the floor with human contestants on jeopardy? it was a great player. but then, for final jeopardy, watson was asked this question: "its largest airport is named for a world war ii hero, its second-largest for a world war ii battle."(hums final jeopardy music)chicago. the two humans got it right. watson, on the other hand, answered "toronto" — for a us city category! the impressive system also made an error that a human would never make, a second-grader wouldn't make.our machine intelligence can fail in ways that don't fit error patterns of humans, in ways we won't expect and be prepared for. it'd be lousy not to get a job one is qualified for, but it would triple suck if it was because of stack overflow in some subroutine. in may of 2010, a flash crash on wall street fueled by a feedback loop in wall street's "sell" algorithm wiped a trillion dollars of value in 36 minutes. i don't even want to think what "error" means in the context of lethal autonomous weapons.so yes, humans have always made biases. decision makers and gatekeepers, in courts, in news, in war ... they make mistakes; but that's exactly my point. we cannot escape these difficult questions. we cannot outsource our responsibilities to machines. artificial intelligence does not give us a "get out of ethics free" card.data scientist fred benenson calls this math-washing. we need the opposite. we need to cultivate algorithm suspicion, scrutiny and investigation. we need to make sure we have algorithmic accountability, auditing and meaningful transparency. we need to accept that bringing math and computation to messy, value-laden human affairs does not bring objectivity; rather, the complexity of human affairs invades the algorithms. yes, we can and we should use computation to help us make better decisions. but we have to own up to our moral responsibility to judgment, and use algorithms within that framework, not as a means to abdicate and outsource our responsibilities to one another as human to human.machine intelligence is here. that means we must hold on ever tighter to human values and human ethics.thank you. <title = "Inside the mind of a former radical jihadist">
<tags = "['Islam', 'Middle East', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'community', 'death', 'humanity', 'identity', 'religion', 'society', 'terrorism', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Peace activist">
today i stand before you as a man who lives life to the full in the here and now. but for a long time, i lived for death.i was a young man who believed that jihad is to be understood in the language of force and violence. i tried to right wrongs through power and aggression. i had deep concerns for the suffering of others and a strong desire to help and bring relief to them. i thought violent jihad was noble, chivalrous and the best way to help.at a time when so many of our people — young people especially — are at risk of radicalization through groups like al-qaeda, islamic state and others, when these groups are claiming that their horrific brutality and violence are true jihad, i want to say that their idea of jihad is wrong — completely wrong — as was mine, then.jihad means to strive to one's utmost. it includes exertion and spirituality, self-purification and devotion. it refers to positive transformation through learning, wisdom and remembrance of god. the word jihad stands for all those meanings as a whole. jihad may at times take the form of fighting, but only sometimes, under strict conditions, within rules and limits.in islam, the benefit of an act must outweigh the harm or hardship it entails. more importantly, the verses in the koran that are connected to jihad or fighting do not cancel out the verses that talk about forgiveness, benevolence or patience.but now i believe that there are no circumstances on earth where violent jihad is permissible, because it will lead to greater harm. but now the idea of jihad has been hijacked. it has been perverted to mean violent struggle wherever muslims are undergoing difficulties, and turned into terrorism by fascistic islamists like al-qaeda, islamic state and others. but i have come to understand that true jihad means striving to the utmost to strengthen and live those qualities which god loves: honesty, trustworthiness, compassion, benevolence, reliability, respect, truthfulness — human values that so many of us share.i was born in bangladesh, but grew up mostly in england. and i went to school here. my father was an academic, and we were in the uk through his work.in 1971 we were in bangladesh when everything changed. the war of independence impacted upon us terribly, pitting family against family, neighbor against neighbor. and at the age of 12 i experienced war, destitution in my family, the deaths of 22 of my relatives in horrible ways, as well as the murder of my elder brother. i witnessed killing ... animals feeding on corpses in the streets, starvation all around me, wanton, horrific violence — senseless violence. i was a young man, teenager, fascinated by ideas. i wanted to learn, but i could not go to school for four years.after the war of independence, my father was put in prison for two and a half years, and i used to visit him every week in prison, and homeschooled myself. my father was released in 1973 and he fled to england as a refugee, and we soon followed him. i was 17.so these experiences gave me a sharp awareness of the atrocities and injustices in the world. and i had a strong desire — a very keen, deep desire — to right wrongs and help the victims of oppression.while studying at college in the uk, i met others who showed me how i could channel that desire and help through my religion. and i was radicalized — enough to consider violence correct, even a virtue under certain circumstances.so i became involved in the jihad in afghanistan. i wanted to protect the muslim afghan population against the soviet army. and i thought that was jihad: my sacred duty, which would be rewarded by god.i became a preacher. i was one of the pioneers of violent jihad in the uk. i recruited, i raised funds, i trained. i confused true jihad with this perversion as presented by the fascist islamists — these people who use the idea of jihad to justify their lust for power, authority and control on earth: a perversion perpetuated today by fascist islamist groups like al-qaeda, islamic state and others.for a period of around 15 years, i fought for short periods of time in kashmir and burma, besides afghanistan. our aim was to remove the invaders, to bring relief to the oppressed victims and of course to establish an islamic state, a caliphate for god's rule. and i did this openly. i didn't break any laws. i was proud and grateful to be british — i still am. and i bore no hostility against this, my country, nor enmity towards the non-muslim citizens, and i still don't.during one battle in afghanistan, some british men and i formed a special bond with a 15-year-old afghani boy, abdullah, an innocent, loving and lovable kid who was always eager to please. he was poor. and boys like him did menial tasks in the camp. and he seemed happy enough, but i couldn't help wonder — his parents must have missed him dearly. and they must have dreamt about a better future for him. a victim of circumstance caught up in a war, cruelly thrust upon him by the cruel circumstances of the time.one day i picked up this unexploded mortar shell in a trench, and i had it deposited in a makeshift mud hut lab. and i went out on a short, pointless skirmish — always pointless, and i came back a few hours later to discover he was dead. he had tried to recover explosives from that shell. it exploded, and he died a violent death, blown to bits by the very same device that had proved harmless to me. so i started to question. how did his death serve any purpose? why did he die and i lived?i carried on. i fought in kashmir. i also recruited for the philippines, bosnia and chechnya. and the questions grew.later in burma, i came across rohingya fighters, who were barely teenagers, born and brought up in the jungle, carrying machine guns and grenade launchers. i met two 13-year-olds with soft manners and gentle voices. looking at me, they begged me to take them away to england. they simply wanted to go to school — that was their dream. my family — my children of the same age — were living at home in the uk, going to school, living a safe life. and i couldn't help wonder how much these young boys must have spoken to one another about their dreams for such a life. victims of circumstances: these two young boys, sleeping rough on the ground, looking up at the stars, cynically exploited by their leaders for their personal lust for glory and power.i soon witnessed boys like them killing one another in conflicts between rival groups. and it was the same everywhere ... afghanistan, kashmir, burma, philippines, chechnya; petty warlords got the young and vulnerable to kill one another in the name of jihad. muslims against muslims. not protecting anyone against invaders or occupiers; not bringing relief to the oppressed. children being used, cynically exploited; people dying in conflicts which i was supporting in the name of jihad. and it still carries on today.realizing that the violent jihad i had engaged in abroad was so different — such a chasm between what i had experienced and what i thought was sacred duty — i had to reflect on my activities here in the uk. i had to consider my preaching, recruiting, fund-raising, training, but most importantly, radicalizing — sending young people to fight and die as i was doing — all totally wrong.so i got involved in violent jihad in the mid '80s, starting with afghanistan. and by the time i finished it was in the year 2000. i was completely immersed in it. all around me people supported, applauded, even celebrated what we were doing in their name. but by the time i learned to get out, completely disillusioned in the year 2000, 15 years had passed.so what goes wrong? we were so busy talking about virtue, and we were blinded by a cause. and we did not give ourselves a chance to develop a virtuous character. we told ourselves we were fighting for the oppressed, but these were unwinnable wars. we became the very instrument through which more deaths occurred, complicit in causing further misery for the selfish benefit of the cruel few.so over time, a very long time, i opened my eyes. i began to dare to face the truth, to think, to face the hard questions. i got in touch with my soul.what have i learned? that people who engage in violent jihadism, that people who are drawn to these types of extremisms, are not that different to everyone else. but i believe such people can change. they can regain their hearts and restore them by filling them with human values that heal.when we ignore the realities, we discover that we accept what we are told without critical reflection. and we ignore the gifts and advantages that many of us would cherish even for a single moment in their lives. i engaged in actions i thought were correct. but now i began to question how i knew what i knew. i endlessly told others to accept the truth, but i failed to give doubt its rightful place.this conviction that people can change is rooted in my experience, my own journey. through wide reading, reflecting, contemplation, self-knowledge, i discovered, i realized that islamists' world of us and them is false and unjust. through considering the uncertainties in all that we had asserted, to the inviolable truths, incontestable truths, i developed a more nuanced understanding.i realized that in a world crowded with variation and contradiction, foolish preachers, only foolish preachers like i used to be, see no paradox in the myths and fictions they use to assert authenticity. so i understood the vital importance of self-knowledge, political awareness and the necessity for a deep and wide understanding of our commitments and our actions, how they affect others.so my plea today to everyone, especially those who sincerely believe in islamist jihadism ... refuse dogmatic authority; let go of anger, hatred and violence; learn to right wrongs without even attempting to justify cruel, unjust and futile behavior. instead create a few beautiful and useful things that outlive us. approach the world, life, with love. learn to develop or cultivate your hearts to see goodness, beauty and truth in others and in the world. that way we do matter more to ourselves ... to each other, to our communities and, for me, to god. this is jihad — my true jihad.thank you. <title = "The unexpected challenges of a country's first election">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'choice', 'communication', 'democracy', 'global development', 'global issues', 'language']">
<occupation = "Electoral consultant">
the great philosopher aristotle said if something doesn't exist, there's no word for it, and if there's no word for something, that something doesn't exist. so when we talk about elections, we in established democracies, we know what we're talking about. we've got the words. we have the vocabulary. we know what a polling station is. we know what a ballot paper is. but what about countries where democracy doesn't exist, countries where there are no words to describe the concepts that underpin a democratic society?i work in the field of electoral assistance, so that's to say we assist emerging democracies to organize what is often their first elections. when people ask me what i do, quite often i get this answer. "oh, so you're one of these people who goes around the world imposing western democracy on countries that can't handle it." well, the united nations does not impose anything on anybody. it really doesn't, and also, what we do is firmly anchored in the 1948 universal declaration of human rights, article 21, that says that everybody should have the right to choose who governs them.so that's the basis of the work. i specialize in public outreach. what does that mean? another jargon. it actually means designing information campaigns so that candidates and voters who have never had the opportunity to participate or to vote understand where, when, how to register; where, when, how to vote; why, why it is important to take part. so i'll probably devise a specific campaign to reach out to women to make sure that they can take part, that they can be part of the process. young people as well. all sorts of people. handicapped people. we try to reach everybody.and it's not always easy, because very often in this work, i've noticed now over the years that i've been doing it that words are lacking, and so what do you do?afghanistan. it's a country with high levels of illiteracy, and the thing about that was, it was in 2005, and we organized two elections on the same day. the reason was because the logistics are so incredibly difficult, it seemed to be more efficient to do that. it was, but on the other hand, explaining two elections instead of one was even more complicated. so we used a lot of images, and when it came to the actual ballot, we had problems, because so many people wanted to take part, we had 300 candidates for 52 seats in the wolesi jirga, which is the parliamentary elections. and for the provincial council, we had even more candidates. we had 330 for 54 seats. so talking about ballot design, this is what the ballot looked like. it's the size of a newspaper. this was the wolesi jirga ballot —  yeah, and — this was the provincial council ballot. even more. so you see, we did use a lot of symbols and things like that.and we had other problems in southern sudan. southern sudan was a very different story. we had so many people who had never, of course, voted, but we had extremely, extremely high levels of illiteracy, very, very poor infrastructure. for example — i mean, it's a country the size of texas, more or less. we had seven kilometers of paved roads, seven kilometers in the whole country, and that includes the tarmac where we landed the planes in juba airport. so transporting electoral materials, etc., is exceedingly difficult. people had no idea about what a box looked like. it was very complicated, so using verbal communication was obviously the way to go, but there were 132 languages. so that was extremely challenging.then i arrived in tunisia in 2011. it was the arab spring. a huge amount of hope was generated by that enormous movement that was going on in the region. there was libya, there was egypt, there was yemen. it was an enormous, enormous historical moment. and i was sitting with the election commission, and we were talking about various aspects of the election, and i was hearing them using words that i hadn't actually heard before, and i'd worked with iraqis, i'd worked with jordanians, egyptians, and suddenly they were using these words, and i just thought, "this is strange." and what really gave rise to it was this word "observer." we were discussing election observers, and the election commissioner was talking about "mulahiz" in arabic. this means "to notice" in a passive sort of sense, as in, "i noticed he was wearing a light blue shirt." did i go and check whether the shirt was light blue or not? that is the role of an election observer. it's very active, it's governed by all kinds of treaties, and it has got that control function in it. and then i got wind of the fact that in egypt, they were using this term "mutabi’," which means "to follow." so we were now having followers of an election. so that's not quite right either, because there is a term that's already accepted and in use, which was the word "muraqib" which means "a controller." it's got that notion of control. so i thought, three words for one concept. this is not good. and with our colleagues, we thought perhaps it's our role to actually help make sure that the words are understood and actually create a work of reference that could be used across the arab region.and that's what we did. so together with these colleagues, we launched the "arabic lexicon of electoral terminology," and we worked in eight different countries. it meant actually defining 481 terms which formed the basis of everything you need to know if you're going to organize a democratic election. and we defined these terms, and we worked with the arab colleagues and came to an agreement about what would be the appropriate word to use in arabic. because the arabic language is very rich, and that's part of the problem. but there are 22 countries that speak arabic, and they use modern standard arabic, which is the arabic that is used across the whole region in newspapers and broadcasts, but of course, then from one country to the next in day to day language and use it varies — dialect, colloquialisms, etc. so that was another added layer of complication. so in one sense you had the problem that language wasn't fully ripe, if you like, neologisms were coming up, new expressions.and so we defined all these terms, and then we had eight correspondents in the region. we submitted the draft to them, they responded back to us. "yes, we understand the definition. we agree with it, but this is what we say in our country." because we were not going to harmonize or force harmonization. we were trying to facilitate understanding among people. so in yellow, you see the different expressions in use in the various countries.so this, i'm happy to say, it took three years to produce this because we also finalized the draft and took it actually into the field, sat with the election commissions in all these different countries, debated and defined and refined the draft, and finally published it in november 2014 in cairo. and it's gone a long way. we published 10,000 copies. to date, there's about 3,000 downloads off the internet in pdf form. i heard just recently from a colleague that they've taken it up in somalia. they're going to produce a version of this in somalia, because there's nothing in somalia at all. so that's very good to know. and this newly formed arab organization for electoral management bodies, which is trying to professionalize how elections are run in the region, they're using it as well. and the arab league have now built up a pan-arab observation unit, and they're using it. so that's all really good.however, this work of reference is quite high-pitched. it's complex, and a lot of the terms are quite technical, so the average person probably doesn't need to know at least a third of it. but the people of the middle east have been deprived of any form of what we know as civic education. it's part of our curriculum at school. it doesn't really exist in that part of the world, and i feel it's really the right of everybody to know how these things work. and it's a good thing to think about producing a work of reference for the average person, and bearing in mind that now we have a basis to work with, but also we have technology, so we can reach out using telephone apps, video, animation. there's all sorts of tools that can be used now to communicate these ideas to people for the first time in their own language.we hear a lot of misery about the middle east. we hear the chaos of war. we hear terrorism. we hear about sectarianism and all this horrible negative news that comes to us all the time. what we're not hearing is what are the people, the everyday people, thinking? what are they aspiring to? let's give them the means, let's give them the words. the silent majority is silent because they don't have the words. the silent majority needs to know. it is time to provide people with the knowledge tools that they can inform themselves with.the silent majority does not need to be silent. let's help them have a voice.thank you very much. <title = "What a driverless world could look like">
<tags = "['biology', 'cars', 'cities', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'design', 'driverless cars', 'infrastructure', 'nature', 'product design', 'technology', 'transportation', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Transportation geek">
some people are obsessed by french wines. others love playing golf or devouring literature. one of my greatest pleasures in life is, i have to admit, a bit special. i cannot tell you how much i enjoy watching cities from the sky, from an airplane window.some cities are calmly industrious, like dusseldorf or louisville. others project an energy that they can hardly contain, like new york or hong kong. and then you have paris or istanbul, and their patina full of history.i see cities as living beings. and when i discover them from far above, i like to find those main streets and highways that structure their space. especially at night, when commuters make these arteries look dramatically red and golden: the city's vascular system performing its vital function right before your eyes. but when i'm sitting in my car after an hour and a half of commute every day, that reality looks very different. nothing — not public radio, no podcast — not even mindfulness meditation makes this time worth living. isn't it absurd that we created cars that can reach 130 miles per hour and we now drive them at the same speed as 19th-century horse carriages? in the us alone, we spent 29.6 billion hours commuting in 2014. with that amount of time, ancient egyptians could have built 26 pyramids of giza. we do that in one year. a monumental waste of time, energy and human potential.for decades, our remedy for congestion was simple: build new roads or enlarge existing ones. and it worked. it worked admirably for paris, when the city tore down hundreds of historical buildings to create 85 miles of transportation-friendly boulevards. and it still works today in fast-growing emerging cities. but in more established urban centers, significant network expansions are almost impossible: habitat is just too dense, real estate, too expensive and public finances, too fragile. our city's vascular system is getting clogged, it's getting sick, and we should pay attention.our current way of thinking is not working. for our transportation to flow, we need a new source of inspiration.so after 16 years working in transportation, my "aha moment" happened when speaking with a biotech customer. she was telling me how her treatment was leveraging specific properties of our vascular system. "wow," i thought, "our vascular system — all the veins and arteries in our body making miracles of logistics every day." this is the moment i realized that biology has been in the transportation business for billions of years. it has been testing countless solutions to move nutrients, gases and proteins. it really is the world's most sophisticated transportation laboratory.so, what if the solution to our traffic challenges was inside us? i wanted to know: why is it that blood flows in our veins most of our lives, when our big cities get clogged on a daily basis? and the reality is that you're looking at two very different networks. i don't know if you realize, but each of us has 60,000 miles of blood vessels in our bodies — 60,000 miles. that's two-and-a-half times the earth's circumference, inside you. what it means is that blood vessels are everywhere inside us, not just under the surface of our skin.but if you look at our cities, yes, we have some underground subway systems and some tunnels and bridges, and also some helicopters in the sky. but the vast majority of our traffic is focused on the ground, on the surface. so in other words, while our vascular system uses the three dimensions inside us, our urban transportation is mostly two-dimensional. and so what we need is to embrace that verticality. if our surface grid is saturated, well, let's elevate our traffic.this chinese concept of a bus that can straddle traffic jams — that was an eye-opener on new ways to think about space and movement inside our cities. and we can go higher, and suspend our transportation like we did with our electrical grid. tel aviv and abu dhabi are talking about testing these futuristic networks of suspended magnetic pods. and we can keep climbing, and fly. the fact that a company like airbus is now seriously working on flying urban taxis is telling us something. flying cars are finally moving from science-fiction déjà vu to attractive business-case territory. and that's an exciting moment.so building this 3-d transportation network is one of the ways we can mitigate and solve traffic jams. but it's not the only one. we have to question other fundamental choices that we made, like the vehicles we use. just imagine a very familiar scene: you've been driving for 42 minutes. the two kids behind you are getting restless. and you're late. do you see that slow car in front of you? always comes when you're late, right? that driver is looking for parking. there is no parking spot available in the area, but how would he know? it is estimated that up to 30 percent of urban traffic is generated by drivers looking for parking. do you see the 100 cars around you? eighty-five of them only have one passenger. those 85 drivers could all fit in one londonian red bus. so the question is: why are we wasting so much space if it is what we need the most? why are we doing this to ourselves?biology would never do this. space inside our arteries is fully utilized. at every heartbeat, a higher blood pressure literally compacts millions of red blood cells into massive trains of oxygen that quickly flow throughout our body. and the tiny space inside our red blood cells is not wasted, either. in healthy conditions, more than 95 percent of their oxygen capacity is utilized. can you imagine if the vehicles we used in our cities were 95 percent full, all the additional space you would have to walk, to bike and to enjoy our cities?the reason blood is so incredibly efficient is that our red blood cells are not dedicated to specific organs or tissues; otherwise, we would probably have traffic jams in our veins. no, they're shared. they're shared by all the cells of our body. and because our network is so extensive, each one of our 37 trillion cells gets its own deliveries of oxygen precisely when it needs them.blood is both a collective and individual form of transportation. but for our cities, we've been stuck. we've been stuck in an endless debate between creating a car-centric society or extensive mass-transit systems. i think we should transcend this. i think we can create vehicles that combine the convenience of cars and the efficiencies of trains and buses. just imagine. you're comfortably sitting in a fast and smooth urban train, along with 1,200 passengers. the problem with urban trains is that sometimes you have to stop five, ten, fifteen times before your final destination.what if in this train you didn't have to stop? in this train, wagons can detach dynamically while you're moving and become express, driverless buses that move on a secondary road network. and so without a single stop, nor a lengthy transfer, you are now sitting in a bus that is headed toward your suburb. and when you get close, the section you're sitting in detaches and self-drives you right to your doorstep. it is collective and individual at the same time. this could be one of the shared, modular, driverless vehicles of tomorrow.now ... as if walking in a city buzzing with drones, flying taxis, modular buses and suspended magnetic pods was not exotic enough, i think there is another force in action that will make urban traffic mesmerizing. if you think about it, the current generation of driverless cars is just trying to earn its way into a traffic grid made by and for humans. they're trying to learn traffic rules, which is relatively simple, and coping with human unpredictability, which is more challenging.but what would happen when whole cities become driverless? would we need traffic lights? would we need lanes? how about speed limits? red blood cells are not flowing in lanes. they never stop at red lights. in the first driverless cities, you would have no red lights and no lanes. and when all the cars are driverless and connected, everything is predictable and reaction time, minimum. they can drive much faster and can take any rational initiative that can speed them up or the cars around them. so instead of rigid traffic rules, flow will be regulated by a mesh of dynamic and constantly self-improving algorithms. the result: a strange traffic that mixes the fast and smooth rigor of german autobahns and the creative vitality of the intersections of mumbai. traffic will be functionally exuberant. it will be liquid like our blood. and by a strange paradox, the more robotized our traffic grid will be, the more organic and alive its movement will feel.so yes, biology has all the attributes of a transportation genius today. but this process has taken billions of years, and went through all sorts of iterations and mutations. we can't wait billions of years to evolve our transportation system. we now have the dreams, the concepts and the technology to create 3-d transportation networks, invent new vehicles and change the flow in our cities.let's do it.thank you. <title = "How the US should use its superpower status">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Asia', 'Europe', 'Foreign Policy', 'Iran', 'Middle East', 'New York', 'South America', 'Syria', 'TEDx', 'business', 'china', 'democracy', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'iraq', 'law', 'military', 'money', 'motivation', 'politics', 'security', 'society', 'war']">
<occupation = "Political theorist">
when you come to tedx, you always think about technology, the world changing, becoming more innovative. you think about the driverless. everyone's talking about driverless cars these days, and i love the concept of a driverless car, but when i go in one, you know, i want it really slow, i want access to the steering wheel and the brake, just in case. i don't know about you, but i am not ready for a driverless bus. i am not ready for a driverless airplane.how about a driverless world? and i ask you that because we are increasingly in one.it's not supposed to be that way. we're number one, the united states is large and in charge. americanization and globalization for the last several generations have basically been the same thing. right? whether it's the world trade organization or it's the imf, the world bank, the bretton woods accord on currency, these were american institutions, our values, our friends, our allies, our money, our standards. that was the way the world worked.so it's sort of interesting, if you want to look at how the us looks, here it is. this is our view of how the world is run. president obama has got the red carpet, he goes down air force one, and it feels pretty good, it feels pretty comfortable. well, i don't know how many of you saw the china trip last week and the g20. oh my god. right? this is how we landed for the most important meeting of the world's leaders in china. the national security advisor was actually spewing expletives on the tarmac — no red carpet, kind of left out the bottom of the plane along with all the media and everybody else.later on in the g20, well, there's obama. hi, george. hi, norman. they look like they're about to get into a cage match, right? and they did. it was 90 minutes long, and they talked about syria. that's what putin wanted to talk about. he's increasingly calling the shots. he's the one willing to do stuff there. there's not a lot of mutual like or trust, but it's not as if the americans are telling him what to do.how about when the whole 20 are getting together? surely, when the leaders are all onstage, then the americans are pulling their weight. uh-oh. xi jinping seems fine. angela merkel has — she always does — that look, she always does that. but putin is telling turkish president erdogan what to do, and obama is like, what's going on over there?you see. and the problem is it's not a g20, the problem is it's a g-zero world that we live in, a world order where there is no single country or alliance that can meet the challenges of global leadership. the g20 doesn't work, the g7, all of our friends, that's history. so globalization is continuing. goods and services and people and capital are moving across borders faster and faster than ever before, but americanization is not.so if i've convinced you of that, i want to do two things with the rest of this talk. i want to talk about the implications of that for the whole world. i'll go around it. and then i want to talk about what we think right here in the united states and in new york.so why? what are the implications. why are we here? well, we're here because the united states, we spent two trillion dollars on wars in iraq and afghanistan that were failed. we don't want to do that anymore. we have large numbers of middle and working classes that feel like they've not benefited from promises of globalization, so they don't want to see it particularly. and we have an energy revolution where we don't need opec or the middle east the way we used to. we produce all that right here in the united states. so the americans don't want to be the global sheriff for security or the architect of global trade. the americans don't want to even be the cheerleader of global values.well, then you look to europe, and the most important alliance in the world has been the transatlantic relationship. but it is now weaker than it has been at any point since world war ii, all of the crises, the brexit conversations, the hedging going on between the french and the russians, or the germans and the turks, or the brits and the chinese.china does want to do more leadership. they do, but only in the economic sphere, and they want their own values, standards, currency, in competition with that of the us. the russians want to do more leadership. you see that in ukraine, in the baltic states, in the middle east, but not with the americans. they want their own preferences and order. that's why we are where we are.so what happens going forward? let's start easy, with the middle east. you know, i left a little out, but you get the general idea. look, there are three reasons why the middle east has had stability such as it is. right? one is because there was a willingness to provide some level of military security by the us and allies. number two, it was easy to take a lot of cheap money out of the ground because oil was expensive. and number three was no matter how bad the leaders were, the populations were relatively quiescent. they didn't have the ability, and many didn't have the will to really rise up against.well, i can tell you, in a g-zero world, all three of those things are increasingly not true, and so failed states, terrorism, refugees and the rest. does the entire middle east fall apart? no, the kurds will do better, and iraq, israel, iran over time. but generally speaking, it's not a good look.ok, how about this guy? he's playing a poor hand very well. there's no question he's hitting above his weight. but long term — i didn't mean that. but long term, long term, if you think that the russians were antagonized by the us and europe expanding nato right up to their borders when we said they weren't going to, and the eu encroaching them, just wait until the chinese put hundreds of billions of dollars in every country around russia they thought they had influence in. the chinese are going to dominate it. the russians are picking up the crumbs. in a g-zero world, this is going to be a very tense 10 years for mr. putin.it's not all bad. right? asia actually looks a lot better. there are real leaders across asia, they have a lot of political stability. they're there for a while. mr. modi in india, mr. abe, who is probably about to get a third term written in in the liberal democratic party in japan, of course xi jinping who is consolidating enormous power, the most powerful leader in china since mao. those are the three most important economies in asia. now look, there are problems in asia. we see the sparring over the south china sea. we see that kim jong un, just in the last couple of days, tested yet another nuclear weapon. but the leaders in asia do not feel the need to wave the flag, to go xenophobic, to actually allow escalation of the geopolitical and cross-border tensions. they want to focus on long-term economic stability and growth. and that's what they're actually doing.let's turn to europe. europe does look a little scared in this environment. so much of what is happening in the middle east is washing up quite literally onto european shores. you see brexit and you see the concerns of populism across all of the european states.let me tell you that over the long term, in a g-zero world, european expansion will be seen to have gone too far. europe went right up to russia, went right down to the middle east, and if the world were truly becoming more flat and more americanized, that would be less of a problem, but in a g-zero world, those countries nearest russia and nearest the middle east actually have different economic capabilities, different social stability and different political preferences and systems than core europe. so europe was able to truly expand under the g7, but under the g-zero, europe will get smaller. core europe around germany and france and others will still work, be functional, stable, wealthy, integrated. but the periphery, countries like greece and turkey and others, will not look that good at all.latin america, a lot of populism, made the economies not go so well. they had been more opposed to the united states for decades. increasingly, they're coming back. we see that in argentina. we see it with the openness in cuba. we will see it in venezuela when maduro falls. we will see it in brazil after the impeachment and when we finally see a new legitimate president elected there. the only place you see that is moving in another direction is the unpopularity of mexican president peña nieto. there you could actually see a slip away from the united states over the coming years. the us election matters a lot on that one, too. africa, right? a lot of people have said it's going to be africa's decade, finally. in a g-zero world, it is absolutely an amazing time for a few african countries, those governed well with a lot of urbanization, a lot of smart people, women really getting into the workforce, entrepreneurship taking off. but for most of the countries in africa, it's going to be a lot more dicey: extreme climate conditions, radicalism both from islam and also christianity, very poor governance, borders you can't defend, lots of forced migration. those countries can fall off the map. so you're really going to see an extreme segregation going on between the winners and the losers across africa.finally, back to the united states. what do i think about us? because there are a lot of upset people, not here at tedx, i know, but in the united states, my god, after 15 months of campaigning, we should be upset. i understand that. but a lot of people are upset because they say, "washington's broken, we don't trust the establishment, we hate the media." heck, even globalists like me are taking it on the chin.look, i do think we have to recognize, my fellow campers, that when you are being chased by the bear, in the global context, you need not outrun the bear, you need to only outrun your fellow campers. now, i just told you about our fellow campers. right? and from that perspective, we look ok. a lot of people in that context say, "let's go dollar. let's go new york real estate. let's send our kids to american universities." you know, our neighbors are awesome: canada, mexico and two big bodies of water. you know how much turkey would love to have neighbors like that? those are awesome neighbors.terrorism is a problem in the united states. god knows we know it here in new york. but it's a much bigger problem in europe than the us. it's a much bigger problem in the middle east than it is in europe. these are factors of large magnitude. we just accepted 10,000 syrian refugees, and we're complaining bitterly about it. you know why? because they can't swim here. right? i mean, the turks would love to have only 10,000 syrian refugees. the jordanians, the germans, the brits. right? that's not the situation. that's the reality of the united states.now, that sounds pretty good. here's the challenge. in a g-zero world, the way you lead is by example. if we know we don't want to be the global cop anymore, if we know we're not going to be the architect of global trade, we're not going to be the cheerleader of global values, we're not going to do it the way we used to, the 21st century is changing, we need to lead by example — be so compelling that all these other people are going to still say, it's not just they're faster campers. even when the bear is not chasing us, this is a good place to be. we want to emulate them.the election process this year is not proving a good option for leading by example. hillary clinton says it's going to be like the '90s. we can still be that cheerleader on values. we can still be the architect of global trade. we can still be the global sheriff. and donald trump wants to bring us back to the '30s. he's saying, "our way or the highway. you don't like it, lump it." right? neither are recognizing a fundamental truth of the g-zero, which is that even though the us is not in decline, it is getting objectively harder for the americans to impose their will, even have great influence, on the global order.are we prepared to truly lead by example? what would we have to do to fix this after november, after the next president comes in? well, either we have to have another crisis that forces us to respond. a depression would do that. another global financial crisis could do this. god forbid, another 9/11 could do that. or, absent crisis, we need to see that the hollowing out, the inequality, the challenges that are growing and growing in the united states, are themselves urgent enough to force our leaders to change, and that we have those voices. through our cell phones, individually, we have those voices to compel them to change.there is, of course, a third choice, perhaps the most likely one, which is that we do neither of those things, and in four years time you invite me back, and i will give this speech yet again.thank you very, very much. <title = "How loss helped one artist find beauty in imperfection">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'aging', 'art', 'beauty', 'cancer', 'death', 'family', 'life', 'painting']">
<occupation = "Painter">
i'm a painter. i make large-scale figurative paintings, which means i paint people like this. but i'm here tonight to tell you about something personal that changed my work and my perspective. it's something we all go through, and my hope is that my experience may be helpful to somebody.to give you some background on me, i grew up the youngest of eight. yes, eight kids in my family. i have six older brothers and a sister. to give you a sense of what that's like, when my family went on vacation, we had a bus. my supermom would drive us all over town to our various after-school activities — not in the bus. we had a regular car, too. she would take me to art classes, and not just one or two. she took me to every available art class from when i was eight to 16, because that's all i wanted to do. she even took a class with me in new york city.now, being the youngest of eight, i learned a few survival skills. rule number one: don't let your big brother see you do anything stupid. so i learned to be quiet and neat and careful to follow the rules and stay in line.but painting was where i made the rules. that was my private world. by 14, i knew i really wanted to be an artist. my big plan was to be a waitress to support my painting. so i continued honing my skills. i went to graduate school and i got an mfa, and at my first solo show, my brother asked me, "what do all these red dots mean next to the paintings?" nobody was more surprised than me. the red dots meant that the paintings were sold and that i'd be able to pay my rent with painting. now, my apartment had four electrical outlets, and i couldn't use a microwave and a toaster at the same time, but still, i could pay my rent. so i was very happy.here's a painting from back around that time. i needed it to be as realistic as possible. it had to be specific and believable. this was the place where i was isolated and in total control.since then, i've made a career of painting people in water. bathtubs and showers were the perfect enclosed environment. it was intimate and private, and water was this complicated challenge that kept me busy for a decade. i made about 200 of these paintings, some of them six to eight feet, like this one. for this painting, i mixed flour in with the bathwater to make it cloudy and i floated cooking oil on the surface and stuck a girl in it, and when i lit it up, it was so beautiful i couldn't wait to paint it. i was driven by this kind of impulsive curiosity, always looking for something new to add: vinyl, steam, glass. i once put all this vaseline in my head and hair just to see what that would look like. don't do that. so it was going well. i was finding my way. i was eager and motivated and surrounded by artists, always going to openings and events. i was having some success and recognition and i moved into an apartment with more than four outlets. my mom and i would stay up very late talking about our latest ideas and inspiring each other. she made beautiful pottery.i have a friend named bo who made this painting of his wife and i dancing by the ocean, and he called it "the light years." i asked him what that meant, and he said, "well, that's when you've stepped into adulthood, you're no longer a child, but you're not yet weighed down by the responsibilities of life." that was it. it was the light years.on october 8, 2011, the light years came to an end. my mom was diagnosed with lung cancer. it had spread to her bones, and it was in her brain. when she told me this, i fell to my knees. i totally lost it. and when i got myself together and i looked at her, i realized, this isn't about me. this is about figuring out how to help her. my father is a doctor, and so we had a great advantage having him in charge, and he did a beautiful job taking care of her. but i, too, wanted to do everything i could to help, so i wanted to try everything. we all did. i researched alternative medicines, diets, juicing, acupuncture. finally, i asked her, "is this what you want me to do?" and she said, "no." she said, "pace yourself. i'm going to need you later."she knew what was happening, and she knew what the doctors and the experts and the internet didn't know: how she wanted to go through this. i just needed to ask her. i realized that if i tried to fix it, i would miss it. so i just started to be with her, whatever that meant and whatever situation came up, just really listen to her. if before i was resisting, then now i was surrendering, giving up trying to control the uncontrollable and just being there in it with her. time slowed down, and the date was irrelevant.we developed a routine. early each morning i would crawl into bed with her and sleep with her. my brother would come for breakfast and we'd be so glad to hear his car coming up the driveway. so i'd help her up and take both her hands and help her walk to the kitchen. she had this huge mug she made she loved to drink her coffee out of, and she loved irish soda bread for breakfast. afterwards was the shower, and she loved this part. she loved the warm water, so i made this as indulgent as i could, like a spa. my sister would help sometimes. we had warm towels and slippers ready immediately so she never got cold for a second. i'd blow-dry her hair. my brothers would come in the evenings and bring their kids, and that was the highlight of her day.over time, we started to use a wheelchair, and she didn't want to eat so much, and she used the tiniest little teacup we could find to drink her coffee. i couldn't support her myself anymore, so we hired an aide to help me with the showers.these simple daily activities became our sacred ritual, and we repeated them day after day as the cancer grew. it was humbling and painful and exactly where i wanted to be. we called this time "the beautiful awful."she died on october 26, 2012. it was a year and three weeks after her diagnosis. she was gone. my brothers, sister, and father and i all came together in this supportive and attentive way. it was as though our whole family dynamic and all our established roles vanished and we were just all together in this unknown, feeling the same thing and taking care of each other. i'm so grateful for them.as someone who spends most of my time alone in a studio working, i had no idea that this kind of connection could be so important, so healing. this was the most important thing. it was what i always wanted.so after the funeral, it was time for me to go back to my studio. so i packed up my car and i drove back to brooklyn, and painting is what i've always done, so that's what i did. and here's what happened. it's like a release of everything that was unraveling in me. that safe, very, very carefully rendered safe place that i created in all my other paintings, it was a myth. it didn't work. and i was afraid, because i didn't want to paint anymore.so i went into the woods. i thought, i'll try that, going outside. i got my paints, and i wasn't a landscape painter, but i wasn't really much of any kind of painter at all, so i had no attachment, no expectation, which allowed me to be reckless and free. i actually left one of these wet paintings outside overnight next to a light in the woods. by the morning it was lacquered with bugs. but i didn't care. it didn't matter. it didn't matter. i took all these paintings back to my studio, and scraped them, and carved into them, and poured paint thinner on them, put more paint on top, drew on them. i had no plan, but i was watching what was happening.this is the one with all the bugs in it. i wasn't trying to represent a real space. it was the chaos and the imperfections that were fascinating me, and something started to happen. i got curious again. this is another one from the woods.there was a caveat now, though. i couldn't be controlling the paint like i used to. it had to be about implying and suggesting, not explaining or describing. and that imperfect, chaotic, turbulent surface is what told the story. i started to be as curious as i was when i was a student.so the next thing was i wanted to put figures in these paintings, people, and i loved this new environment, so i wanted to have both people and this atmosphere. when the idea hit me of how to do this, i got kind of nauseous and dizzy, which is really just adrenaline, probably, but for me it's a really good sign.and so now i want to show you what i've been working on. it's something i haven't shown yet, and it's like a preview, i guess, of my upcoming show, what i have so far. expansive space instead of the isolated bathtub. i'm going outside instead of inside. loosening control, savoring the imperfections, allowing the — allowing the imperfections. and in that imperfection, you can find a vulnerability. i could feel my deepest intention, what matters most to me, that human connection that can happen in a space where there's no resisting or controlling. i want to make paintings about that.so here's what i learned. we're all going to have big losses in our lives, maybe a job or a career, relationships, love, our youth. we're going to lose our health, people we love. these kinds of losses are out of our control. they're unpredictable, and they bring us to our knees. and so i say, let them. fall to your knees. be humbled. let go of trying to change it or even wanting it to be different. it just is. and then there's space, and in that space feel your vulnerability, what matters most to you, your deepest intention. and be curious to connect to what and who is really here, awake and alive. it's what we all want.let's take the opportunity to find something beautiful in the unknown, in the unpredictable, and even in the awful.thank you. <title = "Everything you hear on film is a lie">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'brain', 'communication', 'entertainment', 'film', 'hearing', 'illusion', 'library', 'media', 'mind', 'music', 'sound', 'speech', 'storytelling', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
i want to start by doing an experiment. i'm going to play three videos of a rainy day. but i've replaced the audio of one of the videos, and instead of the sound of rain, i've added the sound of bacon frying. so i want you think carefully which one the clip with the bacon is.(rain falls)(rain falls)(rain falls)all right. actually, i lied. they're all bacon.(bacon sizzles) my point here isn't really to make you hungry every time you see a rainy scene, but it's to show that our brains are conditioned to embrace the lies. we're not looking for accuracy.so on the subject of deception, i wanted to quote one of my favorite authors. in "the decay of lying," oscar wilde establishes the idea that all bad art comes from copying nature and being realistic; and all great art comes from lying and deceiving, and telling beautiful, untrue things. so when you're watching a movie and a phone rings, it's not actually ringing. it's been added later in postproduction in a studio. all of the sounds you hear are fake. everything, apart from the dialogue, is fake. when you watch a movie and you see a bird flapping its wings —(wings flap)they haven't really recorded the bird. it sounds a lot more realistic if you record a sheet or shaking kitchen gloves.(flaps)the burning of a cigarette up close —(cigarette burns)it actually sounds a lot more authentic if you take a small saran wrap ball and release it.(a saran warp ball being released)punches?(punch)oops, let me play that again.(punch)that's often done by sticking a knife in vegetables, usually cabbage.(cabbage stabbed with a knife)the next one — it's breaking bones.(bones break)well, no one was really harmed. it's actually ... breaking celery or frozen lettuce.(breaking frozen lettuce or celery) making the right sounds is not always as easy as a trip to the supermarket and going to the vegetable section. but it's often a lot more complicated than that. so let's reverse-engineer together the creation of a sound effect.one of my favorite stories comes from frank serafine. he's a contributor to our library, and a great sound designer for "tron" and "star trek" and others. he was part of the paramount team that won the oscar for best sound for "the hunt for red october." in this cold war classic, in the '90s, they were asked to produce the sound of the propeller of the submarine. so they had a small problem: they couldn't really find a submarine in west hollywood. so basically, what they did is, they went to a friend's swimming pool, and frank performed a cannonball, or bomba. they placed an underwater mic and an overhead mic outside the swimming pool. so here's what the underwater mic sounds like.(underwater plunge)adding the overhead mic, it sounded a bit like this:(water splashes)so now they took the sound and pitched it one octave down, sort of like slowing down a record.(water splashes at lower octave) and then they removed a lot of the high frequencies.(water splashes) and pitched it down another octave.(water splashes at lower octave) and then they added a little bit of the splash from the overhead microphone.(water splashes) and by looping and repeating that sound, they got this:(propeller churns)so, creativity and technology put together in order to create the illusion that we're inside the submarine.but once you've created your sounds and you've synced them to the image, you want those sounds to live in the world of the story. and one the best ways to do that is to add reverb. so this is the first audio tool i want to talk about. reverberation, or reverb, is the persistence of the sound after the original sound has ended. so it's sort of like the — all the reflections from the materials, the objects and the walls around the sound.take, for example, the sound of a gunshot. the original sound is less than half a second long.(gunshot) by adding reverb, we can make it sound like it was recorded inside a bathroom.(gunshot reverbs in bathroom) or like it was recorded inside a chapel or a church.(gunshot reverbs church)or in a canyon.(gunshot reverbs in canyon)so reverb gives us a lot of information about the space between the listener and the original sound source. if the sound is the taste, then reverb is sort of like the smell of the sound.but reverb can do a lot more. listening to a sound with a lot less reverberation than the on-screen action is going to immediately signify to us that we're listening to a commentator, to an objective narrator that's not participating in the on-screen action. also, emotionally intimate moments in cinema are often heard with zero reverb, because that's how it would sound if someone was speaking inside our ear.on the completely other side, adding a lot of reverb to a voice is going to make us think that we're listening to a flashback, or perhaps that we're inside the head of a character or that we're listening to the voice of god. or, even more powerful in film, morgan freeman. so — but what are some other tools or hacks that sound designers use? well, here's a really big one. it's silence. a few moments of silence is going to make us pay attention. and in the western world, we're not really used to verbal silences. they're considered awkward or rude. so silence preceding verbal communication can create a lot of tension. but imagine a really big hollywood movie, where it's full of explosions and automatic guns. loud stops being loud anymore, after a while. so in a yin-yang way, silence needs loudness and loudness needs silence for either of them to have any effect.but what does silence mean? well, it depends how it's used in each film. silence can place us inside the head of a character or provoke thought. we often relate silences with ... contemplation, meditation, being deep in thought. but apart from having one meaning, silence becomes a blank canvas upon which the viewer is invited to the paint their own thoughts.but i want to make it clear: there is no such thing as silence. and i know this sounds like the most pretentious ted talk statement ever. but even if you were to enter a room with zero reverberation and zero external sounds, you would still be able to hear the pumping of your own blood. and in cinema, traditionally, there was never a silent moment because of the sound of the projector. and even in today's dolby world, there's not really any moment of silence if you listen around you. there's always some sort of noise.now, since there's no such thing as silence, what do filmmakers and sound designers use? well, as a synonym, they often use ambiences. ambiences are the unique background sounds that are specific to each location. each location has a unique sound, and each room has a unique sound, which is called room tone. so here's a recording of a market in morocco.(voices, music)and here's a recording of times square in new york.(traffic sounds, car horns, voices)room tone is the addition of all the noises inside the room: the ventilation, the heating, the fridge. here's a recording of my apartment in brooklyn.(you can hear the ventilation, the boiler, the fridge and street traffic)ambiences work in a most primal way. they can speak directly to our brain subconsciously. so, birds chirping outside your window may indicate normality, perhaps because, as a species, we've been used to that sound every morning for millions of years.(birds chirp) on the other hand, industrial sounds have been introduced to us a little more recently. even though i really like them personally — they've been used by one of my heroes, david lynch, and his sound designer, alan splet — industrial sounds often carry negative connotations.(machine noises)now, sound effects can tap into our emotional memory. occasionally, they can be so significant that they become a character in a movie. the sound of thunder may indicate divine intervention or anger.(thunder)church bells can remind us of the passing of time, or perhaps our own mortality.(bells ring)and breaking of glass can indicate the end of a relationship or a friendship.(glass breaks)scientists believe that dissonant sounds, for example, brass or wind instruments played very loud, may remind us of animal howls in nature and therefore create a sense of irritation or fear.(brass and wind instruments play)so now we've spoken about on-screen sounds. but occasionally, the source of a sound cannot be seen. that's what we call offscreen sounds, or "acousmatic." acousmatic sounds — well, the term "acousmatic" comes from pythagoras in ancient greece, who used to teach behind a veil or curtain for years, not revealing himself to his disciples. i think the mathematician and philosopher thought that, in that way, his students might focus more on the voice, and his words and its meaning, rather than the visual of him speaking. so sort of like the wizard of oz, or "1984's" big brother, separating the voice from its source, separating cause and effect sort of creates a sense of ubiquity or panopticism, and therefore, authority.there's a strong tradition of acousmatic sound. nuns in monasteries in rome and venice used to sing in rooms up in galleries close to the ceiling, creating the illusion that we're listening to angels up in the sky. richard wagner famously created the hidden orchestra that was placed in a pit between the stage and the audience. and one of my heroes, aphex twin, famously hid in dark corners of clubs.i think what all these masters knew is that by hiding the source, you create a sense of mystery. this has been seen in cinema over and over, with hitchcock, and ridley scott in "alien." hearing a sound without knowing its source is going to create some sort of tension. also, it can minimize certain visual restrictions that directors have and can show something that wasn't there during filming. and if all this sounds a little theoretical, i wanted to play a little video.(toy squeaks)(typewriter)(drums)(ping-pong)(knives being sharpened)(record scratches)(saw cuts)(woman screams)what i'm sort of trying to demonstrate with these tools is that sound is a language. it can trick us by transporting us geographically; it can change the mood; it can set the pace; it can make us laugh or it can make us scared.on a personal level, i fell in love with that language a few years ago, and somehow managed to make it into some sort of profession. and i think with our work through the sound library, we're trying to kind of expand the vocabulary of that language. and in that way, we want to offer the right tools to sound designers, filmmakers, and video game and app designers, to keep telling even better stories and creating even more beautiful lies.so thanks for listening. <title = ""St. James Infirmary Blues"">
<tags = "['art', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'singer', 'vocals']">
<occupation = "Musical explorers">
(music)i went down to st. james infirmaryto see my baby thereshe was lying on a long wooden tableso cold, so still, so fairi went up to see the doctor"she's very low," he saidi went back to see my babygood god she's lying there deadi went down to old joe's bar roomon the corner of the squarethey were serving drinks as per usualand the usual crowd was thereto my left stood old joe mckennedyhis eyes were bloodshot redhe turned to the crowd around himand these are the words he said"let her go, let her go, god bless herwherever she may beshe can search this whole wide world all overbut she'll never find another man like meshe can search this whole wide world all overand she'll never find another man like mewhen i die, please god, bury mein my ten-dollar stetson hatput a twenty-dollar gold piece on my watch chainso my friends know i died standing patget six gamblers to carry my coffinand six choir girls to sing me a songstick a jazz band on my hearse wagonto raise hell as i go alongnow that's the end of my storylet's have another round of boozeand if anyone should ask youjust tell them i got the st. james infirmary blues <title = "Enough with the fear of fat">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'art', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'culture', 'fear', 'humanity', 'identity', 'obesity', 'performance art', 'photography', 'self', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Artist, activist ">
i'm here today to talk to you about a very powerful little word, one that people will do almost anything to avoid becoming. billion-dollar industries thrive because of the fear of it, and those of us who undeniably are it are left to navigate a relentless storm surrounding it.i'm not sure if any of you have noticed, but i'm fat. not the lowercase, muttered-behind-my-back kind, or the seemingly harmless chubby or cuddly. i'm not even the more sophisticated voluptuous or curvaceous kind.let's not sugarcoat it. i am the capital f-a-t kind of fat. i am the elephant in the room. when i walked out on stage, some of you may have been thinking, "aww, this is going to be hilarious, because everybody knows that fat people are funny." or you may have been thinking, "where does she get her confidence from?" because a confident fat woman is almost unthinkable. the fashion-conscious members of the audience may have been thinking how fabulous i look in this beth ditto dress —(cheers)thank you very much. whereas some of you might have thought, "hmm, black would have been so much more slimming." you may have wondered, consciously or not, if i have diabetes, or a partner, or if i eat carbs after 7pm. you may have worried that you ate carbs after 7pm last night, and that you really should renew your gym membership.these judgments are insidious. they can be directed at individuals and groups, and they can also be directed at ourselves. and this way of thinking is known as fatphobia.like any form of systematic oppression, fatphobia is deeply rooted in complex structures like capitalism, patriarchy and racism, and that can make it really difficult to see, let alone challenge. we live in a culture where being fat is seen as being a bad person — lazy, greedy, unhealthy, irresponsible and morally suspect. and we tend to see thinness as being universally good — responsible, successful, and in control of our appetites, bodies and lives. we see these ideas again and again in the media, in public health policy, doctors' offices, in everyday conversations and in our own attitudes. we may even blame fat people themselves for the discrimination they face because, after all, if we don't like it, we should just lose weight. easy. this antifat bias has become so integral, so ingrained to how we value ourselves and each other that we rarely question why we have such contempt for people of size and where that disdain comes from.but we must question it, because the enormous value we place on how we look affects every one of us. and do we really want to live in a society where people are denied their basic humanity if they don't subscribe to some arbitrary form of acceptable?so when i was six years old, my sister used to teach ballet to a bunch of little girls in our garage. i was about a foot taller and a foot wider than most of the group. when it came to doing our first performance, i was so excited about wearing a pretty pink tutu. i was going to sparkle. as the other girls slipped easily into their lycra and tulle creations, not one of the tutus was big enough to fit me. i was determined not to be excluded from the performance, so i turned to my mother and loud enough for everyone to hear said, "mom, i don't need a tutu. i need a fourfour." thanks, mom. and although i didn't recognize it at the time, claiming space for myself in that glorious fourfour was the first step towards becoming a radical fat activist.now, i'm not saying that this whole body-love thing has been an easy skip along a glittering path of self-acceptance since that day in class. far from it. i soon learned that living outside what the mainstream considers normal can be a frustrating and isolating place. i've spent the last 20 years unpacking and deprogramming these messages, and it's been quite the roller coaster. i've been openly laughed at, abused from passing cars and been told that i'm delusional. i also receive smiles from strangers who recognize what it takes to walk down the street with a spring in your step and your head held high.(cheer)thanks. and through it all, that fierce little six-year-old has stayed with me, and she has helped me stand before you today as an unapologetic fat person, a person that simply refuses to subscribe to the dominant narrative about how i should move through the world in this body of mine. and i'm not alone. i am part of an international community of people who choose to, rather than passively accepting that our bodies are and probably always will be big, we actively choose to flourish in these bodies as they are today. people who honor our strength and work with, not against, our perceived limitations, people who value health as something much more holistic than a number on an outdated bmi chart. instead, we value mental health, self-worth and how we feel in our bodies as vital aspects to our overall well-being. people who refuse to believe that living in these fat bodies is a barrier to anything, really.there are doctors, academics and bloggers who have written countless volumes on the many facets of this complex subject. there are fatshionistas who reclaim their bodies and their beauty by wearing fatkinis and crop tops, exposing the flesh that we're all taught to hide. there are fat athletes who run marathons, teach yoga or do kickboxing, all done with a middle finger firmly held up to the status quo. and these people have taught me that radical body politics is the antidote to our body-shaming culture.but to be clear, i'm not saying that people shouldn't change their bodies if that's what they want to do. reclaiming yourself can be one of the most gorgeous acts of self-love and can look like a million different things, from hairstyles to tattoos to body contouring to hormones to surgery and yes, even weight loss. it's simple: it's your body, and you decide what's best to do with it.my way of engaging in activism is by doing all the things that we fatties aren't supposed to do, and there's a lot of them, inviting other people to join me and then making art about it. the common thread through most of this work has been reclaiming spaces that are often prohibitive to bigger bodies, from the catwalk to club shows, from public swimming pools to prominent dance stages. and reclaiming spaces en masse is not only a powerful artistic statement but a radical community-building approach. this was so true of "aquaporko!" — the fat fem synchronized swim team i started with a group of friends in sydney. the impact of seeing a bunch of defiant fat women in flowery swimming caps and bathers throwing their legs in the air without a care should not be underestimated. throughout my career, i have learned that fat bodies are inherently political, and unapologetic fat bodies can blow people's minds. when director kate champion, of acclaimed dance theater company force majeure, asked me to be the artistic associate on a work featuring all fat dancers, i literally jumped at the opportunity. and i mean literally. "nothing to lose" is a work made in collaboration with performers of size who drew from their lived experiences to create a work as varied and authentic as we all are. and it was as far from ballet as you could imagine.the very idea of a fat dance work by such a prestigious company was, to put it mildly, controversial, because nothing like it had ever been done on mainstream dance stages before anywhere in the world.people were skeptical. "what do you mean, 'fat dancers?' like, size 10, size 12 kind of fat? where did they do their dance training? are they going to have the stamina for a full-length production?"but despite the skepticism, "nothing to lose" became a sellout hit of sydney festival. we received rave reviews, toured, won awards and were written about in over 27 languages. these incredible images of our cast were seen worldwide. i've lost count of how many times people of all sizes have told me that the show has changed their lives, how it helped them shift their relationship to their own and other people's bodies, and how it made them confront their own bias.but of course, work that pushes people's buttons is not without its detractors. i have been told that i'm glorifying obesity. i have received violent death threats and abuse for daring to make work that centers fat people's bodies and lives and treats us as worthwhile human beings with valuable stories to tell. i've even been called "the isis of the obesity epidemic" — a comment so absurd that it is funny. but it also speaks to the panic, the literal terror, that the fear of fat can evoke. it is this fear that's feeding the diet industry, which is keeping so many of us from making peace with our own bodies, for waiting to be the after-photo before we truly start to live our lives. because the real elephant in the room here is fatphobia. fat activism refuses to indulge this fear. by advocating for self-determination and respect for all of us, we can shift society's reluctance to embrace diversity and start to celebrate the myriad ways there are to have a body.thank you. <title = "Your smartphone is a civil rights issue">
<tags = "['Internet', 'Surveillance', 'TED Fellows', 'activism', 'choice', 'communication', 'computers', 'data', 'government', 'hack', 'security', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Privacy researcher and activist">
in the spring of 2016, a legal battle between apple and the federal bureau of investigation captured the world's attention.apple has built security features into its mobile products which protect data on its devices from everyone but the owner. that means that criminals, hackers and yes, even governments are all locked out. for apple's customers, this is a great thing. but governments are not so happy. you see, apple has made a conscious decision to get out of the surveillance business. apple has tried to make surveillance as difficult as possible for governments and any other actors.there are really two smartphone operating systems in the global smartphone market: ios and android. ios is made by apple. android is made by google. apple has spent a lot of time and money to make sure that its products are as secure as possible. apple encrypts all data stored on iphones by default, and text messages sent from one apple customer to another apple customer are encrypted by default without the user having to take any actions.what this means is that, if the police seize an iphone and it has a password, they'll have a difficult time getting any data off of it, if they can do it at all. in contrast, the security of android just really isn't as good. android phones, or at least most of the android phones that have been sold to consumers, do not encrypt data stored on the device by default, and the built-in text messaging app in android does not use encryption. so if the police seize an android phone, chances are, they'll be able to get all the data they want off of that device.two smartphones from two of the biggest companies in the world; one that protects data by default, and one that doesn't.apple is a seller of luxury goods. it dominates the high end of the market. and we would expect a manufacturer of luxury goods to have products that include more features. but not everyone can afford an iphone. that's where android really, really dominates: at the middle and low end of the market, smartphones for the billion and a half people who cannot or will not spend 600 dollars on a phone.but the dominance of android has led to what i call the "digital security divide." that is, there is now increasingly a gap between the privacy and security of the rich, who can afford devices that secure their data by default, and of the poor, whose devices do very little to protect them by default.so, think of the average apple customer: a banker, a lawyer, a doctor, a politician. these individuals now increasingly have smartphones in their pockets that encrypt their calls, their text messages, all the data on the device, without them doing really anything to secure their information. in contrast, the poor and the most vulnerable in our societies are using devices that leave them completely vulnerable to surveillance.in the united states, where i live, african-americans are more likely to be seen as suspicious or more likely to be profiled, and are more likely to be targeted by the state with surveillance. but african-americans are also disproportionately likely to use android devices that do nothing at all to protect them from that surveillance. this is a problem.we must remember that surveillance is a tool. it's a tool used by those in power against those who have no power. and while i think it's absolutely great that companies like apple are making it easy for people to encrypt, if the only people who can protect themselves from the gaze of the government are the rich and powerful, that's a problem. and it's not just a privacy or a cybersecurity problem. it's a civil rights problem.so the lack of default security in android is not just a problem for the poor and vulnerable users who are depending on these devices. this is actually a problem for our democracy. i'll explain what i mean.modern social movements rely on technology — from black lives matter to the arab spring to occupy wall street. the organizers of these movements and the members of these movements increasingly communicate and coordinate with smartphones. and so, naturally governments that feel threatened by these movements will also target the organizers and their smartphones. now, it's quite possible that a future martin luther king or a mandela or a gandhi will have an iphone and be protected from government surveillance. but chances are, they'll probably have a cheap, $20 android phone in their pocket.and so if we do nothing to address the digital security divide, if we do nothing to ensure that everyone in our society gets the same benefits of encryption and is equally able to protect themselves from surveillance by the state, not only will the poor and vulnerable be exposed to surveillance, but future civil rights movements may be crushed before they ever reach their full potential.thank you. helen walters: chris, thank you so much. i have a question for you. we saw recently in the press that mark zuckerberg from facebook covers over his camera and does something with his headphone mic jack. so i wanted to ask you a personal question, which is: do you do that? and, on behalf of everyone here, particularly myself, should we be doing that? should we be covering these things?christopher soghoian: putting a sticker — actually, i like band-aids, because you can remove them and put them back on whenever you want to make a call or a skype call. putting a sticker over your web cam is probably the best thing you can do for your privacy in terms of bang for buck. there really is malware, malicious software out there that can take over your web cam, even without the light turning on. this is used by criminals. this is used by stalkers. you can buy $19.99 "spy on your ex-girlfriend" software online. it's really terrifying. and then, of course, it's used by governments. and there's obviously a sexual violence component to this, which is that this kind of surveillance can be used most effectively against women and other people who can be shamed in our society. even if you think you have nothing to hide, at the very least, if you have children, teenagers in your lives, make sure you put a sticker on their camera and protect them.hw: wow. thank you so much. cs: thank you.hw: thanks, chris. <title = "How America's public schools keep kids in poverty">
<tags = "['Slavery', 'TEDx', 'United States', 'children', 'community', 'education', 'inequality', 'personal growth', 'policy', 'race', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Educator">
i want to talk to you about my kids. now, i know everyone thinks that their kid is the most fantastic, the most beautiful kid that ever lived. but mine really are. i have 696 kids, and they are the most intelligent, inventive, innovative, brilliant and powerful kids that you'll ever meet.any student i've had the honor of teaching in my classroom is my kid. however, because their "real" parents aren't rich and, i argue, because they are mostly of color, they will seldom get to see in themselves the awesomeness that i see in them. because what i see in them is myself — or what would have been myself.i am the daughter of two hardworking, college-educated, african-american parents who chose careers as public servants: my father, a minister; my mother, an educator. wealth was never the primary ambition in our house. because of this lack of wealth, we lived in a neighborhood that lacked wealth, and henceforth a school system that lacked wealth. luckily, however, we struck the educational jackpot in a voluntary desegregation program that buses inner-city kids — black and brown — out to suburban schools — rich and white.at five years old, i had to take an hour-long bus ride to a faraway place to get a better education. at five years old, i thought everyone had a life just like mine. i thought everyone went to school and were the only ones using the brown crayons to color in their family portraits, while everyone else was using the peach-colored ones. at five years old, i thought everyone was just like me. but as i got older, i started noticing things, like: how come my neighborhood friend don't have to wake up at five o'clock in the morning, and go to a school that's an hour away? how come i'm learning to play the violin while my neighborhood friends don't even have a music class? why were my neighborhood friends learning and reading material that i had done two to three years prior?see, as i got older, i started to have this unlawful feeling in my belly, like i was doing something that i wasn't supposed to be doing; taking something that wasn't mine; receiving a gift, but with someone else's name on it. all these amazing things that i was being exposed to and experiencing, i felt i wasn't really supposed to have. i wasn't supposed to have a library, fully equipped athletic facilities, or safe fields to play in. i wasn't supposed to have theatre departments with seasonal plays and concerts — digital, visual, performing arts. i wasn't supposed to have fully resourced biology or chemistry labs, school buses that brought me door-to-door, freshly prepared school lunches or even air conditioning. these are things my kids don't get.you see, as i got older, while i was grateful for this amazing opportunity that i was being given, there was this ever-present pang of: but what about everyone else? there are thousands of other kids just like me, who deserve this, too. why doesn't everyone get this? why is a high-quality education only exclusive to the rich?it was like i had some sort of survivor's remorse. all of my neighborhood friends were experiencing an educational train wreck that i was saved from through a bus ride. i was like an educational moses screaming, "let my people go ... to high-quality schools!" i'd seen firsthand how the other half was being treated and educated. i'd seen the educational promised land, and i could not for the life of me justify the disparity.i now teach in the very same school system from which i sought refuge. i know firsthand the tools that were given to me as a student, and now as a teacher, i don't have access to those same tools to give my students. there have been countless nights when i've cried in frustration, anger and sorrow, because i can't teach my kids the way that i was taught, because i don't have access to the same resources or tools that were used to teach me. my kids deserve so much better.we sit and we keep banging our heads against this term: "achievement gap, achievement gap!" is it really that hard to understand why these kids perform well and these kids don't? i mean, really. i think we've got it all wrong. i think we, as gloria ladson-billings says, should flip our paradigm and our language and call it what it really is. it's not an achievement gap; it's an education debt, for all of the foregone schooling resources that were never invested in the education of the black and brown child over time.a little-known secret in american history is that the only american institution created specifically for people of color is the american slave trade — and some would argue the prison system, but that's another topic for another ted talk. the public school system of this country was built, bought and paid for using commerce generated from the slave trade and slave labor. while african-americans were enslaved and prohibited from schooling, their labor established the very institution from which they were excluded. ever since then, every court case, educational policy, reform, has been an attempt to retrofit the design, rather than just stopping and acknowledging: we've had it all wrong from the beginning.an oversimplification of american educational history. all right, just bear with me. blacks were kept out — you know, the whole slavery thing. with the help of philanthropic white people, they built their own schools. separate but equal was ok. but while we all know things were indeed separate, they were in no ways equal. enter brown v. the board of education of topeka, kansas in 1954; legal separation of the races is now illegal. but very few people pay attention to all of the court cases since then, that have undone the educational promised land for every child that brown v. board intended. some argue that today our schools are now more segregated than they ever were before we tried to desegregate them in the first place.teaching my kids about desegregation, the little rock nine, the civil rights movement, is a real awkward moment in my classroom, when i have to hear the voice of a child ask, "if schools were desegregated in 1954, how come there are no white kids here?" these kids aren't dumb. they know exactly what's happening, and what's not. they know that when it comes to schooling, black lives don't matter and they never have.for years, i tried desperately to cultivate in my kids a love of reading. i'd amassed a modest classroom library of books i'd accumulated from secondhand shops, thrift stores, attics — you know. but whenever i said those dreadful words, "take out a book and read," you'd think i'd just declared war. it was torture. one day, after i'd heard about this website called donorschoose, where classroom teachers create wish lists of items they need for their classroom and anonymous donors fulfill them, i figured i'd go out on a limb and just make a wish list of the teenager's dream library. over 200 brand-new books were sent to my room piece by piece. every day there were new deliveries and my kids would exclaim with glee, "this feels like christmas!" then they'd say, "ms. sumner, where did these books come from?"and then i'd reply, "strangers from all over the country wanted you to have these."and then they'd say, almost suspiciously, "but they're brand-new." to which i'd reply, "you deserve brand-new books."the whole experience hit home for me when one of my girls, as she peeled open a crisp paperback said, "ms. sumner — you know, i figured you bought these books, 'cause you teachers are always buying us stuff. but to know that a stranger, someone i don't even know, cares this much about me is pretty cool."knowing that strangers will take care of you is a privilege my kids aren't afforded.ever since the donation, there has been a steady stream of kids signing out books to take home, and then returning them with the exclamation, "this one was good!" now when i say, "take out a book and read," kids rush to my library. it wasn't that they didn't want to read, but instead, they'd gladly read if the resources were there.institutionally speaking, our public school system has never done right by the black and brown child. we keep focusing on the end results or test results, and getting frustrated. we get to a catastrophe and we wonder, "how did it get so bad? how did we get here?" really? if you neglect a child long enough, you no longer have the right to be surprised when things don't turn out well.stop being perplexed or confused or befuddled by the achievement gap, the income gap, the incarceration rates, or whatever socioeconomic disparity is the new "it" term for the moment. the problems we have as a country are the problems we created as a country. the quality of your education is directly proportionate to your access to college, your access to jobs, your access to the future.until we live in a world where every kid can get a high-quality education no matter where they live, or the color of their skin, there are things we can do on a macro level. school funding should not be decided by property taxes or some funky economic equation where rich kids continue to benefit from state aid, while poor kids are continuously having food and resources taken from their mouths. governors, senators, mayors, city council members — if we're going to call public education public education, then it should be just that. otherwise, we should call it what it really is: poverty insurance. "public education: keeping poor kids poor since 1954." if we really, as a country, believe that education is the "great equalizer," then it should be just that: equal and equitable. until then, there's no democracy in our democratic education.on a mezzo level: historically speaking, the education of the black and brown child has always depended on the philanthropy of others. and unfortunately, today it still does. if your son or daughter or niece or nephew or neighbor or little timmy down the street goes to an affluent school, challenge your school committee to adopt an impoverished school or an impoverished classroom. close the divide by engaging in communication and relationships that matter. when resources are shared, they're not divided; they're multiplied.and on a micro level: if you're a human being, donate. time, money, resources, opportunities — whatever is in your heart. there are websites like donorschoose that recognize the disparity and actually want to do something about it.what is a carpenter with no tools? what is an actress with no stage? what is a scientist with no laboratory? what is a doctor with no equipment? i'll tell you: they're my kids. shouldn't they be your kids, too?thank you. <title = "Your company's data could help end world hunger">
<tags = "['big problems', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'data', 'decision-making', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Data activist">
june 2010. i landed for the first time in rome, italy. i wasn't there to sightsee. i was there to solve world hunger. that's right. i was a 25-year-old phd student armed with a prototype tool developed back at my university, and i was going to help the world food programme fix hunger. so i strode into the headquarters building and my eyes scanned the row of un flags, and i smiled as i thought to myself, "the engineer is here." give me your data. i'm going to optimize everything. tell me the food that you've purchased, tell me where it's going and when it needs to be there, and i'm going to tell you the shortest, fastest, cheapest, best set of routes to take for the food. we're going to save money, we're going to avoid delays and disruptions, and bottom line, we're going to save lives. you're welcome. i thought it was going to take 12 months, ok, maybe even 13. this is not quite how it panned out. just a couple of months into the project, my french boss, he told me, "you know, mallory, it's a good idea, but the data you need for your algorithms is not there. it's the right idea but at the wrong time, and the right idea at the wrong time is the wrong idea." project over. i was crushed.when i look back now on that first summer in rome and i see how much has changed over the past six years, it is an absolute transformation. it's a coming of age for bringing data into the humanitarian world. it's exciting. it's inspiring. but we're not there yet. and brace yourself, executives, because i'm going to be putting companies on the hot seat to step up and play the role that i know they can.my experiences back in rome prove using data you can save lives. ok, not that first attempt, but eventually we got there. let me paint the picture for you. imagine that you have to plan breakfast, lunch and dinner for 500,000 people, and you only have a certain budget to do it, say 6.5 million dollars per month. well, what should you do? what's the best way to handle it? should you buy rice, wheat, chickpea, oil? how much? it sounds simple. it's not. you have 30 possible foods, and you have to pick five of them. that's already over 140,000 different combinations. then for each food that you pick, you need to decide how much you'll buy, where you're going to get it from, where you're going to store it, how long it's going to take to get there. you need to look at all of the different transportation routes as well. and that's already over 900 million options. if you considered each option for a single second, that would take you over 28 years to get through. 900 million options.so we created a tool that allowed decisionmakers to weed through all 900 million options in just a matter of days. it turned out to be incredibly successful. in an operation in iraq, we saved 17 percent of the costs, and this meant that you had the ability to feed an additional 80,000 people. it's all thanks to the use of data and modeling complex systems.but we didn't do it alone. the unit that i worked with in rome, they were unique. they believed in collaboration. they brought in the academic world. they brought in companies. and if we really want to make big changes in big problems like world hunger, we need everybody to the table. we need the data people from humanitarian organizations leading the way, and orchestrating just the right types of engagements with academics, with governments. and there's one group that's not being leveraged in the way that it should be. did you guess it? companies.companies have a major role to play in fixing the big problems in our world. i've been in the private sector for two years now. i've seen what companies can do, and i've seen what companies aren't doing, and i think there's three main ways that we can fill that gap: by donating data, by donating decision scientists and by donating technology to gather new sources of data. this is data philanthropy, and it's the future of corporate social responsibility. bonus, it also makes good business sense.companies today, they collect mountains of data, so the first thing they can do is start donating that data. some companies are already doing it. take, for example, a major telecom company. they opened up their data in senegal and the ivory coast and researchers discovered that if you look at the patterns in the pings to the cell phone towers, you can see where people are traveling. and that can tell you things like where malaria might spread, and you can make predictions with it. or take for example an innovative satellite company. they opened up their data and donated it, and with that data you could track how droughts are impacting food production. with that you can actually trigger aid funding before a crisis can happen.this is a great start. there's important insights just locked away in company data. and yes, you need to be very careful. you need to respect privacy concerns, for example by anonymizing the data.but even if the floodgates opened up, and even if all companies donated their data to academics, to ngos, to humanitarian organizations, it wouldn't be enough to harness that full impact of data for humanitarian goals. why? to unlock insights in data, you need decision scientists. decision scientists are people like me. they take the data, they clean it up, transform it and put it into a useful algorithm that's the best choice to address the business need at hand. in the world of humanitarian aid, there are very few decision scientists. most of them work for companies. so that's the second thing that companies need to do. in addition to donating their data, they need to donate their decision scientists.now, companies will say, "ah! don't take our decision scientists from us. we need every spare second of their time." but there's a way. if a company was going to donate a block of a decision scientist's time, it would actually make more sense to spread out that block of time over a long period, say for example five years. this might only amount to a couple of hours per month, which a company would hardly miss, but what it enables is really important: long-term partnerships. long-term partnerships allow you to build relationships, to get to know the data, to really understand it and to start to understand the needs and challenges that the humanitarian organization is facing. in rome, at the world food programme, this took us five years to do, five years. that first three years, ok, that was just what we couldn't solve for. then there was two years after that of refining and implementing the tool, like in the operations in iraq and other countries. i don't think that's an unrealistic timeline when it comes to using data to make operational changes. it's an investment. it requires patience. but the types of results that can be produced are undeniable. in our case, it was the ability to feed tens of thousands more people.so we have donating data, we have donating decision scientists, and there's actually a third way that companies can help: donating technology to capture new sources of data. you see, there's a lot of things we just don't have data on. right now, syrian refugees are flooding into greece, and the un refugee agency, they have their hands full. the current system for tracking people is paper and pencil, and what that means is that when a mother and her five children walk into the camp, headquarters is essentially blind to this moment. that's all going to change in the next few weeks, thanks to private sector collaboration. there's going to be a new system based on donated package tracking technology from the logistics company that i work for. with this new system, there will be a data trail, so you know exactly the moment when that mother and her children walk into the camp. and even more, you know if she's going to have supplies this month and the next. information visibility drives efficiency. for companies, using technology to gather important data, it's like bread and butter. they've been doing it for years, and it's led to major operational efficiency improvements. just try to imagine your favorite beverage company trying to plan their inventory and not knowing how many bottles were on the shelves. it's absurd. data drives better decisions.now, if you're representing a company, and you're pragmatic and not just idealistic, you might be saying to yourself, "ok, this is all great, mallory, but why should i want to be involved?" well for one thing, beyond the good pr, humanitarian aid is a 24-billion-dollar sector, and there's over five billion people, maybe your next customers, that live in the developing world. further, companies that are engaging in data philanthropy, they're finding new insights locked away in their data. take, for example, a credit card company that's opened up a center that functions as a hub for academics, for ngos and governments, all working together. they're looking at information in credit card swipes and using that to find insights about how households in india live, work, earn and spend. for the humanitarian world, this provides information about how you might bring people out of poverty. but for companies, it's providing insights about your customers and potential customers in india. it's a win all around. now, for me, what i find exciting about data philanthropy — donating data, donating decision scientists and donating technology — it's what it means for young professionals like me who are choosing to work at companies. studies show that the next generation of the workforce care about having their work make a bigger impact. we want to make a difference, and so through data philanthropy, companies can actually help engage and retain their decision scientists. and that's a big deal for a profession that's in high demand.data philanthropy makes good business sense, and it also can help revolutionize the humanitarian world. if we coordinated the planning and logistics across all of the major facets of a humanitarian operation, we could feed, clothe and shelter hundreds of thousands more people, and companies need to step up and play the role that i know they can in bringing about this revolution.you've probably heard of the saying "food for thought." well, this is literally thought for food. it finally is the right idea at the right time. très magnifique.thank you. <title = "4 ways to build a human company in the age of machines">
<tags = "['beauty', 'business', 'collaboration', 'goal-setting', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'work']">
<occupation = "Business romantic">
half of the human workforce is expected to be replaced by software and robots in the next 20 years. and many corporate leaders welcome that as a chance to increase profits. machines are more efficient; humans are complicated and difficult to manage.well, i want our organizations to remain human. in fact, i want them to become beautiful. because as machines take our jobs and do them more efficiently, soon the only work left for us humans will be the kind of work that must be done beautifully rather than efficiently.to maintain our humanity in the this second machine age, we may have no other choice than to create beauty. beauty is an elusive concept. for the writer stendhal it was the promise of happiness. for me it's a goal by lionel messi. so bear with me as i am proposing four admittedly very subjective principles that you can use to build a beautiful organization.first: do the unnecessary.[do the unnecessary]a few months ago, hamdi ulukaya, the ceo and founder of the yogurt company chobani, made headlines when he decided to grant stock to all of his 2,000 employees. some called it a pr stunt, others — a genuine act of giving back. but there is something else that was remarkable about it. it came completely out of the blue. there had been no market or stakeholder pressure, and employees were so surprised that they burst into tears when they heard the news. actions like ulukaya's are beautiful because they catch us off guard. they create something out of nothing because they're completely unnecessary.i once worked at a company that was the result of a merger of a large it outsourcing firm and a small design firm. we were merging 9,000 software engineers with 1,000 creative types. and to unify these immensely different cultures, we were going to launch a third, new brand. and the new brand color was going to be orange. and as we were going through the budget for the rollouts, we decided last minute to cut the purchase of 10,000 orange balloons, which we had meant to distribute to all staff worldwide. they just seemed unnecessary and cute in the end. i didn't know back then that our decision marked the beginning of the end — that these two organizations would never become one. and sure enough, the merger eventually failed. now, was it because there weren't any orange balloons? no, of course not. but the kill-the-orange-balloons mentality permeated everything else. you might not always realize it, but when you cut the unnecessary, you cut everything. leading with beauty means rising above what is merely necessary. so do not kill your orange balloons.the second principle: create intimacy.[create intimacy]studies show that how we feel about our workplace very much depends on the relationships with our coworkers. and what are relationships other than a string of microinteractions? there are hundreds of these every day in our organizations that have the potential to distinguish a good life from a beautiful one. the marriage researcher john gottman says that the secret of a healthy relationship is not the great gesture or the lofty promise, it's small moments of attachment. in other words, intimacy. in our networked organizations, we tout the strength of weak ties but we underestimate the strength of strong ones. we forget the words of the writer richard bach who once said, "intimacy — not connectedness — intimacy is the opposite of loneliness."so how do we design for organizational intimacy? the humanitarian organization care wanted to launch a campaign on gender equality in villages in northern india. but it realized quickly that it had to have this conversation first with its own staff. so it invited all 36 team members and their partners to one of the khajuraho temples, known for their famous erotic sculptures. and there they openly discussed their personal relationships — their own experiences of gender equality with the coworkers and the partners. it was eye-opening for the participants. not only did it allow them to relate to the communities they serve, it also broke down invisible barriers and created a lasting bond amongst themselves. not a single team member quit in the next four years. so this is how you create intimacy. no masks ... or lots of masks. when danone, the food company, wanted to translate its new company manifesto into product initiatives, it gathered the management team and 100 employees from across different departments, seniority levels and regions for a three-day strategy retreat. and it asked everybody to wear costumes for the entire meeting: wigs, crazy hats, feather boas, huge glasses and so on. and they left with concrete outcomes and full of enthusiasm. and when i asked the woman who had designed this experience why it worked, she simply said, "never underestimate the power of a ridiculous wig." because wigs erase hierarchy, and hierarchy kills intimacy — both ways, for the ceo and the intern. wigs allow us to use the disguise of the false to show something true about ourselves. and that's not easy in our everyday work lives, because the relationship with our organizations is often like that of a married couple that has grown apart, suffered betrayals and disappointments, and is now desperate to be beautiful for one another once again. and for either of us the first step towards beauty involves a huge risk. the risk to be ugly.[be ugly]so many organizations these days are keen on designing beautiful workplaces that look like anything but work: vacation resorts, coffee shops, playgrounds or college campuses — based on the promises of positive psychology, we speak of play and gamification, and one start-up even says that when someone gets fired, they have graduated. that kind of beautiful language only goes "skin deep, but ugly cuts clean to the bone," as the writer dorothy parker once put it. to be authentic is to be ugly. it doesn't mean that you can't have fun or must give in to the vulgar or cynical, but it does mean that you speak the actual ugly truth. like this manufacturer that wanted to transform one of its struggling business units. it identified, named and pinned on large boards all the issues — and there were hundreds of them — that had become obstacles to better performance. they put them on boards, moved them all into one room, which they called "the ugly room." the ugly became visible for everyone to see — it was celebrated. and the ugly room served as a mix of mirror exhibition and operating room — a biopsy on the living flesh to cut out all the bureaucracy.the ugliest part of our body is our brain. literally and neurologically. our brain renders ugly what is unfamiliar ... modern art, atonal music, jazz, maybe — vr goggles for that matter — strange objects, sounds and people. but we've all been ugly once. we were a weird-looking baby, a new kid on the block, a foreigner. and we will be ugly again when we don't belong.the center for political beauty, an activist collective in berlin, recently staged an extreme artistic intervention. with the permission of relatives, it exhumed the corpses of refugees who had drowned at europe's borders, transported them all the way to berlin, and then reburied them at the heart of the german capital. the idea was to allow them to reach their desired destination, if only after their death. such acts of beautification may not be pretty, but they are much needed. because things tend to get ugly when there's only one meaning, one truth, only answers and no questions. beautiful organizations keep asking questions. they remain incomplete, which is the fourth and the last of the principles.[remain incomplete]recently i was in paris, and a friend of mine took me to nuit debout, which stands for "up all night," the self-organized protest movement that had formed in response to the proposed labor laws in france. every night, hundreds gathered at the place de la république. every night they set up a small, temporary village to deliberate their own vision of the french republic. and at the core of this adhocracy was a general assembly where anybody could speak using a specially designed sign language. like occupy wall street and other protest movements, nuit debout was born in the face of crisis. it was messy — full of controversies and contradictions. but whether you agreed with the movement's goals or not, every gathering was a beautiful lesson in raw humanity. and how fitting that paris — the city of ideals, the city of beauty — was it's stage. it reminds us that like great cities, the most beautiful organizations are ideas worth fighting for — even and especially when their outcome is uncertain. they are movements; they are always imperfect, never fully organized, so they avoid ever becoming banal. they have something but we don't know what it is. they remain mysterious; we can't take our eyes off them. we find them beautiful.so to do the unnecessary, to create intimacy, to be ugly, to remain incomplete — these are not only the qualities of beautiful organizations, these are inherently human characteristics. and these are also the qualities of what we call home. and as we disrupt, and are disrupted, the least we can do is to ensure that we still feel at home in our organizations, and that we use our organizations to create that feeling for others.beauty can save the world when we embrace these principles and design for them. in the face of artificial intelligence and machine learning, we need a new radical humanism. we must acquire and promote a new aesthetic and sentimental education. because if we don't, we might end up feeling like aliens in organizations and societies that are full of smart machines that have no appreciation whatsoever for the unnecessary, the intimate, the incomplete and definitely not for the ugly.thank you. <title = ""Space Oddity"">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'guitar', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'singer', 'vocals']">
<occupation = "Musician, blogger">
(music)amanda palmer (singing): ground control to major tom,ground control to major tom,take your protein pills and put your helmet on.al gore: ten, nine, eight, seven, six ...ap: ground control to major tom,ag: five, four, three, two, one ... ap: commencing countdown, engines on.check ignition and may god's love be with you.ag: liftoff.ap: this is ground control to major tom,you've really made the gradeand the papers want to know whose shirts you wear.now it's time to leave the capsule if you dare."this is major tom to ground control,i'm stepping through the doorand i'm floating in a most peculiar wayand the stars look very different today.for here am i floating round my tin can.far above the world,planet earth is blue and there's nothing i can do."(music)"though i'm past 100,000 miles,i'm feeling very still, and i think my spaceship knows which way to go.tell my wife i love her very much she knows."ground control to major tom, your circuit's dead, there's something wrong.can you hear me, major tom?can you hear me, major tom?can you hear me, major tom?can you ..."here am i floating round my tin can, far above the moon.planet earth is blue and there's nothing i can do.(music)["i'm not a prophet or a stone-age man, just a mortal with the potential of a superman ... ... i'm living on." david bowie, 1947-2016] <title = "It's time for women to run for office">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'culture', 'democracy', 'government', 'inequality', 'media', 'motivation', 'politics', 'social change', 'television', 'women']">
<occupation = "Change catalyst">
i feel incredibly lucky to be from a country that's generally considered to be the best place in the world to be a woman.in 1975, when i was seven years old, women in iceland went on a strike. they did no work that day, whether they held professional jobs or had the work of the home. they marched into the center of reykjavík — 90 percent of women participated — and peacefully and in solidarity asked for equality. nothing worked in iceland that day, because nothing works when women are not at work. five years later, icelanders had the courage to be the first country in the world to democratically elect a woman as their president. i will never forget this day, that president vigdís, as we know her by her first name, stepped out on the balcony of her own home, a single mom with her daughter by her side as she had won. this woman was an incredible role model for me and everyone growing up at that time, including boys. she frequently shares the story of how a young boy approached her after a couple of terms in office and asked, "can boys really grow up to be president?" role models really matter, but even with such strong role models who i am so grateful for, when i was encouraged to run for president, my first reaction was, "who am i to run for president? who am i to be president?"it turns out that women are less likely to consider running than men. so a study done in the us in 2011 showed that 62 percent of men had considered running for office, but 45 percent of women. that's gap of 16 percentage points, and it's the same gap that existed a decade earlier. and it really is a shame, because i am so convinced that the world is in real need for women leaders and more principle-based leadership in general.so my decision to run ultimately came down to the fact that i felt that i had to do my bit, even if i had no political experience, to step up and try to be part of creating the world that will make sense and be sustainable for our kids, and a world where we truly allow both our boys and girls to be all they can be.and it was the journey of my life. it was amazing. the journey started with potentially as many as 20 candidates. it boiled down to nine candidates qualifying, and ultimately the race came down to four of us, three men and me. but that's not all the drama yet. you may think you have drama in the us, but i can — i can assure you we had our own drama in iceland. so our sitting president of 20 years announced initially that he was not going to run, which is probably what gave rise to so many candidates considering running. then later he changed his mind when our prime minister resigned following the infamous panama papers that implicated him and his family. and there was a popular protest in iceland, so the sitting president thought they needed a trusted leader. a few days later, relations to his wife and her family's companies were also discovered in the panama papers, and so he withdrew from the race again. before doing so, he said he was doing that because now there were two qualified men who he felt could fill his shoes running for office.so on may 9, 45 days before election day, it was not looking too good for me. i did not even make the graph in the newspaper. the polls had me at 1 percent, but that was still the highest that any woman announcing her candidacy had earned. so it would be an understatement to say that i had to work extremely hard to get my seat at the table and access to television, because the network decided that they would only include those with 2.5 percent or more in the polls in the first tv debate. i found out on the afternoon of the first tv debate that i would participate along with the three men, and i found out on live tv that i came in at exactly 2.5 percent on the day of the first tv debate. so, challenges. the foremost challenges i had to face and overcome on this journey had to do with media, muscle and money. let's start with media. there are those who say gender doesn't matter when it comes to media and politics. i can't say that i agree. it proved harder for me to both get access and airtime in media. as a matter of fact, the leading candidate appeared in broadcast media 87 times in the months leading up to the elections, whereas i appeared 31 times. and i am not saying media is doing this consciously. i think largely this has to do with unconscious bias, because in media, much like everywhere else, we have both conscious and unconscious bias, and we need to have the courage to talk about it if we want to change it.when i finally got access to tv, the first question i got was, "are you going to quit?" and that was a hard one. but of course, with 1 percent to 2.5 percent in the polls, maybe it's understandable. but media really matters, and every time i appeared on tv, we saw and experienced a rise in the polls, so i know firsthand how much this matters and why we have to talk about it. i was the only one out of the final four candidates that never got a front page interview. i was sometimes left out of the questions asked of all other candidates and out of coverage about the elections. so i did face this, but i will say this to compliment the icelandic media. i got few if any comments about my hair and pantsuit. so kudos to them. but there is another experience that's very important. i ran as an independent candidate, not with any political party or muscle behind me. that lack of experience and lack of access to resources probably came at a cost to our campaign, but it also allowed us to innovate and do politics differently. we ran a positive campaign, and we probably changed the tone of the election for others by doing that. it may be the reason why i had less airtime on tv, because i wanted to show other contenders respect.when access to media proved to be so difficult, we ran our own media. i ran live facebook sessions where i took questions from voters on anything and responded on the spot. and we put all the questions i got and all the answers on an open facebook because we thought transparency is important if you want to establish trust. and when reaching young voters proved to be challenging, i became a snapchatter. i got young people to teach me how to do that, and i used every filter on snapchat during the last part of the campaign. and i actually had to use a lot of humor and humility, as i was very bad at it. but we grew the following amongst young people by doing that. so it's possible to run a different type of campaign.but unfortunately, one cannot talk about politics without mentioning money. i am sad that it is that way, but it's true, and we had less financial resources than the other candidates. this probably was partly due to the fact that i think i had a harder time asking for financial support. and maybe i also had the ambition to do more with less. some would call that very womanly of me.but even with one third the media, one third the financial resources, and only an entrepreneurial team, but an amazing team, we managed to surprise everyone on election night, when the first numbers came in. i surprised myself, as you may see in that photo. so the first numbers, i came in neck to neck to the leading candidate.(cheers)well, too early, because i didn't quite pull that, but i came in second, and we went a long way from the one percent, with nearly a third of the vote, and we beat the polls by an unprecedented margin, or 10 percentage points above what the last poll came in at.some people call me the real winner of the election because of this, and there are many people who encouraged me to run again. but what really makes me proud is to know that i earned proportionately higher percentage support from the young people, and a lot of people encouraged my daughter to run in 2040. she is 13, and she had never been on tv before. and on election day, i observed her on tv repeatedly, and she was smart, she was self-confident, she was sincere, and she was supportive of her mother. this was probably the highlight of my campaign. but there was another one. these are preschool girls out on a walk, and they found a poster of me on a bus stop, and they saw the need to kiss it.audience: aw!this picture was really enough of a win for me. what we see, we can be. so screw fear and challenges. it matters that women run, and it's time for women to run for office, be it the office of the ceo or the office of the president. i also managed to put an impression on your very own "new yorker." i earned a new title, "a living emoji of sincerity."(cheers)it is possibly my proudest title yet, and the reason is that women too often get penalized for using what i call their emotional capital, but i know from experience that we become so good when we do just that. and we need more of that.we celebrated as if we had won on election night, because that's how we felt. so you don't necessarily have to reach that office. you just have to go for it, and you, your family, your friends, everyone working with you, if you do it well, you will grow beyond anything you will experience before.so we had a good time, and i learned a lot on this journey, probably more lessons than i can share here in the time we have today. but rest assured, it was hard work. i lost a lot of sleep during those months. it took resilience and perseverance to not quit, but i learned something that i knew before on the one percent day, and that is that you can only be good when you are truly, authentically listening to your own voice and working in alignment with that. as a good sister of mine sometimes says, you may cheat on your intuition, but your intuition never cheats on you.i think it's also very important, and you all know this, that on any journey you go on, it's the team you take along. it's having people around you who share your values, your vision, but are different in every other way. that's the formula for success for me, and i am blessed with an amazing husband, here today, an incredible family — and great friends, and we came together as entrepreneurs in the political arena, and pulled something off that everyone said would be impossible. as a matter of fact, the leading pr expert told me before i made my decision that i would do well to get seven percent. i appreciated his perspective, because he was probably right, and he was basing it on valuable experience. but on the one percent day, i decided here to show him that he was wrong.it's very important to mention this, because i did lose a lot of sleep, and i worked hard, and so did the people with me. we can never go the distance if we forget to take care of ourselves. and it's two things that i think are very important in that, in surrounding yourself with people and practices that nourish you, but it's equally important, maybe even more important, to have the courage to get rid of people and practices that take away your energy, including the wonderful bloggers and commentators. i took a lot of support from others in doing this, and i made the decision to go high when others went low, and that's partly how i kept my energy going throughout all of this. and when i lost my energy for a moment — and i did from time to time, it wasn't easy — i went back to why i decided to run, and how i had decided to run my own race.i called it a 4g campaign, the g's representing the icelandic words. and the first one is called "gagn." i ran to do good, to be of service, and i wanted servant leadership to be at the center of how i worked and everybody else in the campaign. second one is "gleði," or joy. i decided to enjoy the journey. there was a lot to be taken out of the journey, no matter if the destination was reached or not. and i tried my utmost to inspire others to do so as well. third is "gagnsæi." i was open to any questions. i kept no secrets, and it was all open, on facebook and websites. because i think if you're choosing your president, you deserve answers to your questions. last but not least, i don't need to explain that in this room, we ran on the principle of girlpower.(cheers)i am incredibly glad that i had the courage to run, to risk failure but receive success on so many levels. i can't tell you that it was easy, but i can tell you, and i think my entire team will agree with me, that it was worth it.thank you. thank you. thank you. pat mitchell: i'm not letting you go yet.halla tómasdóttir: what a great crowd.pm: i can't let you go without saying that probably everybody in the room is ready to move to iceland and vote for you. but of course we probably can't vote there, but one thing we can get from iceland and have always gotten is inspiration. i mean, i'm old enough to remember 1975 when all the icelandic women walked out, and that really was a very big factor in launching the women's movement. you made a reference to it earlier. i'd love to bring the picture back up and just have us remember what it was like when a country came to a standstill. and then what you may not know because our american media did not report it, the icelandic women walked out again on monday. right?ht: yes, they did. pm: can you tell us about that?ht: yes, so 41 years after the original strike, we may be the best place in the world to be a woman, but our work isn't done. so at 2:38pm on monday, women in iceland left work, because that's when they had earned their day's salary. what's really cool about this is that young women and men participated in greater numbers than before, because it is time that we close the pay gap.pm: so i'm not going to ask halla to commit right now to what she's doing next, but i will say that you'd have a very large volunteer army should you decide to do that again. thank you halla.ht: thank you all. <title = "Islamophobia killed my brother. Let's end the hate">
<tags = "['Islam', 'activism', 'community', 'death', 'family', 'humanity', 'love', 'religion', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Physician">
last year, three of my family members were gruesomely murdered in a hate crime. it goes without saying that it's really difficult for me to be here today, but my brother deah, his wife yusor, and her sister razan don't give me much of a choice. i'm hopeful that by the end of this talk you will make a choice, and join me in standing up against hate.it's december 27, 2014: the morning of my brother's wedding day. he asks me to come over and comb his hair in preparation for his wedding photo shoot. a 23-year-old, six-foot-three basketball, particularly steph curry, fanatic — an american kid in dental school ready to take on the world. when deah and yusor have their first dance, i see the love in his eyes, her reciprocated joy, and my emotions begin to overwhelm me. i move to the back of the hall and burst into tears. and the second the song finishes playing, he beelines towards me, buries me into his arms and rocks me back and forth. even in that moment, when everything was so distracting, he was attuned to me.he cups my face and says, "suzanne, i am who i am because of you. thank you for everything. i love you."about a month later, i'm back home in north carolina for a short visit, and on the last evening, i run upstairs to deah's room, eager to find out how he's feeling being a newly married man. with a big boyish smile he says, "i'm so happy. i love her. she's an amazing girl." and she is. at just 21, she'd recently been accepted to join deah at unc dental school. she shared his love for basketball, and at her urging, they started their honeymoon off attending their favorite team of the nba, the la lakers. i mean, check out that form. i'll never forget that moment sitting there with him — how free he was in his happiness. my littler brother, a basketball-obsessed kid, had become and transformed into an accomplished young man. he was at the top of his dental school class, and alongside yusor and razan, was involved in local and international community service projects dedicated to the homeless and refugees, including a dental relief trip they were planning for syrian refugees in turkey.razan, at just 19, used her creativity as an architectural engineering student to serve those around her, making care packages for the local homeless, among other projects. that is who they were.standing there that night, i take a deep breath and look at deah and tell him, "i have never been more proud of you than i am in this moment." he pulls me into his tall frame, hugs me goodnight, and i leave the next morning without waking him to go back to san francisco. that is the last time i ever hug him.ten days later, i'm on call at san francisco general hospital when i receive a barrage of vague text messages expressing condolences. confused, i call my father, who calmly intones, "there's been a shooting in deah's neighborhood in chapel hill. it's on lock-down. that's all we know." i hang up and quickly google, "shooting in chapel hill." one hit comes up. quote: "three people were shot in the back of the head and confirmed dead on the scene." something in me just knows. i fling out of my chair and faint onto the gritty hospital floor, wailing.i take the first red-eye out of san francisco, numb and disoriented. i walk into my childhood home and faint into my parents' arms, sobbing. i then run up to deah's room as i did so many times before, just looking for him, only to find a void that will never be filled.investigation and autopsy reports eventually revealed the sequence of events. deah had just gotten off the bus from class, razan was visiting for dinner, already at home with yusor. as they began to eat, they heard a knock on the door. when deah opened it, their neighbor proceeded to fire multiple shots at him. according to 911 calls, the girls were heard screaming. the man turned towards the kitchen and fired a single shot into yusor's hip, immobilizing her. he then approached her from behind, pressed the barrel of his gun against her head, and with a single bullet, lacerated her midbrain. he then turned towards razan, who was screaming for her life, and, execution-style, with a single bullet to the back of the head, killed her. on his way out, he shot deah one last time — a bullet in the mouth — for a total of eight bullets: two lodged in the head, two in his chest and the rest in his extremities.deah, yusor and razan were executed in a place that was meant to be safe: their home. for months, this man had been harassing them: knocking on their door, brandishing his gun on a couple of occasions. his facebook was cluttered with anti-religion posts. yusor felt particularly threatened by him. as she was moving in, he told yusor and her mom that he didn't like the way they looked. in response, yusor's mom told her to be kind to her neighbor, that as he got to know them, he'd see them for who they were. i guess we've all become so numb to the hatred that we couldn't have ever imagined it turning into fatal violence.the man who murdered my brother turned himself in to the police shortly after the murders, saying he killed three kids, execution-style, over a parking dispute. the police issued a premature public statement that morning, echoing his claims without bothering to question it or further investigate. it turns out there was no parking dispute. there was no argument. no violation. but the damage was already done. in a 24-hour media cycle, the words "parking dispute" had already become the go-to sound bite.i sit on my brother's bed and remember his words, the words he gave me so freely and with so much love, "i am who i am because of you." that's what it takes for me to climb through my crippling grief and speak out. i cannot let my family's deaths be diminished to a segment that is barely discussed on local news. they were murdered by their neighbor because of their faith, because of a piece of cloth they chose to don on their heads, because they were visibly muslim.some of the rage i felt at the time was that if roles were reversed, and an arab, muslim or muslim-appearing person had killed three white american college students execution-style, in their home, what would we have called it? a terrorist attack. when white men commit acts of violence in the us, they're lone wolves, mentally ill or driven by a parking dispute. i know that i have to give my family voice, and i do the only thing i know how: i send a facebook message to everyone i know in media.a couple of hours later, in the midst of a chaotic house overflowing with friends and family, our neighbor neal comes over, sits down next to my parents and asks, "what can i do?" neal had over two decades of experience in journalism, but he makes it clear that he's not there in his capacity as journalist, but as a neighbor who wants to help. i ask him what he thinks we should do, given the bombardment of local media interview requests. he offers to set up a press conference at a local community center. even now i don't have the words to thank him. "just tell me when, and i'll have all the news channels present," he said.he did for us what we could not do for ourselves in a moment of devastation. i delivered the press statement, still wearing scrubs from the previous night. and in under 24 hours from the murders, i'm on cnn being interviewed by anderson cooper. the following day, major newspapers — including the new york times, chicago tribune — published stories about deah, yusor and razan, allowing us to reclaim the narrative and call attention the mainstreaming of anti-muslim hatred.these days, it feels like islamophobia is a socially acceptable form of bigotry. we just have to put up with it and smile. the nasty stares, the palpable fear when boarding a plane, the random pat downs at airports that happen 99 percent of the time.it doesn't stop there. we have politicians reaping political and financial gains off our backs. here in the us, we have presidential candidates like donald trump, casually calling to register american muslims, and ban muslim immigrants and refugees from entering this country. it is no coincidence that hate crimes rise in parallel with election cycles.just a couple months ago, khalid jabara, a lebanese-american christian, was murdered in oklahoma by his neighbor — a man who called him a "filthy arab." this man was previously jailed for a mere 8 months, after attempting run over khalid's mother with his car. chances are you haven't heard khalid's story, because it didn't make it to national news. the least we can do is call it what it is: a hate crime. the least we can do is talk about it, because violence and hatred doesn't just happen in a vacuum.not long after coming back to work, i'm the senior on rounds in the hospital, when one of my patients looks over at my colleague, gestures around her face and says, "san bernardino," referencing a recent terrorist attack. here i am having just lost three family members to islamophobia, having been a vocal advocate within my program on how to deal with such microaggressions, and yet — silence. i was disheartened. humiliated.days later rounding on the same patient, she looks at me and says, "your people are killing people in los angeles." i look around expectantly. again: silence. i realize that yet again, i have to speak up for myself. i sit on her bed and gently ask her, "have i ever done anything but treat you with respect and kindness? have i done anything but give you compassionate care?" she looks down and realizes what she said was wrong, and in front of the entire team, she apologizes and says, "i should know better. i'm mexican-american. i receive this kind of treatment all the time."many of us experience microaggressions on a daily basis. odds are you may have experienced it, whether for your race, gender, sexuality or religious beliefs. we've all been in situations where we've witnessed something wrong and didn't speak up. maybe we weren't equipped with the tools to respond in the moment. maybe we weren't even aware of our own implicit biases. we can all agree that bigotry is unacceptable, but when we see it, we're silent, because it makes us uncomfortable.but stepping right into that discomfort means you are also stepping into the ally zone. there may be over three million muslims in america. that's still just one percent of the total population. martin luther king once said, "in the end, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends."so what made my neighbor neal's allyship so profound? a couple of things. he was there as a neighbor who cared, but he was also bringing in his professional expertise and resources when the moment called for it. others have done the same. larycia hawkins drew on her platform as the first tenured african-american professor at wheaton college to wear a hijab in solidarity with muslim women who face discrimination every day. as a result, she lost her job. within a month, she joined the faculty at the university of virginia, where she now works on pluralism, race, faith and culture.reddit cofounder, alexis ohanian, demonstrated that not all active allyship needs to be so serious. he stepped up to support a 15-year-old muslim girl's mission to introduce a hijab emoji. it's a simple gesture, but it has a significant subconscious impact on normalizing and humanizing muslims, including the community as a part of an "us" instead of an "other." the editor in chief of women's running magazine just put the first hijabi to ever be on the cover of a us fitness magazine. these are all very different examples of people who drew upon their platforms and resources in academia, tech and media, to actively express their allyship.what resources and expertise do you bring to the table? are you willing to step into your discomfort and speak up when you witness hateful bigotry? will you be neal?many neighbors appeared in this story. and you, in your respective communities, all have a muslim neighbor, colleague or friend your child plays with at school. reach out to them. let them know you stand with them in solidarity. it may feel really small, but i promise you it makes a difference.nothing will ever bring back deah, yusor and razan. but when we raise our collective voices, that is when we stop the hate.thank you. <title = "Can a divided America heal?">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'United States', 'choice', 'communication', 'community', 'democracy', 'economics', 'evolutionary psychology', 'government', 'identity', 'inequality', 'interview', 'media', 'peace', 'philosophy', 'policy', 'psychology', 'religion', 'security', 'social change', 'social media', 'society', 'sociology']">
<occupation = "Social psychologist">
chris anderson: so, jon, this feels scary.jonathan haidt: yeah.ca: it feels like the world is in a place that we haven't seen for a long time. people don't just disagree in the way that we're familiar with, on the left-right political divide. there are much deeper differences afoot. what on earth is going on, and how did we get here?jh: this is different. there's a much more apocalyptic sort of feeling. survey research by pew research shows that the degree to which we feel that the other side is not just — we don't just dislike them; we strongly dislike them, and we think that they are a threat to the nation. those numbers have been going up and up, and those are over 50 percent now on both sides. people are scared, because it feels like this is different than before; it's much more intense.whenever i look at any sort of social puzzle, i always apply the three basic principles of moral psychology, and i think they'll help us here. so the first thing that you have to always keep in mind when you're thinking about politics is that we're tribal. we evolved for tribalism. one of the simplest and greatest insights into human social nature is the bedouin proverb: "me against my brother; me and my brother against our cousin; me and my brother and cousins against the stranger." and that tribalism allowed us to create large societies and to come together in order to compete with others. that brought us out of the jungle and out of small groups, but it means that we have eternal conflict. the question you have to look at is: what aspects of our society are making that more bitter, and what are calming them down?ca: that's a very dark proverb. you're saying that that's actually baked into most people's mental wiring at some level?jh: oh, absolutely. this is just a basic aspect of human social cognition. but we can also live together really peacefully, and we've invented all kinds of fun ways of, like, playing war. i mean, sports, politics — these are all ways that we get to exercise this tribal nature without actually hurting anyone. we're also really good at trade and exploration and meeting new people. so you have to see our tribalism as something that goes up or down — it's not like we're doomed to always be fighting each other, but we'll never have world peace.ca: the size of that tribe can shrink or expand.jh: right.ca: the size of what we consider "us" and what we consider "other" or "them" can change. and some people believed that process could continue indefinitely.jh: that's right.ca: and we were indeed expanding the sense of tribe for a while.jh: so this is, i think, where we're getting at what's possibly the new left-right distinction. i mean, the left-right as we've all inherited it, comes out of the labor versus capital distinction, and the working class, and marx. but i think what we're seeing now, increasingly, is a divide in all the western democracies between the people who want to stop at nation, the people who are more parochial — and i don't mean that in a bad way — people who have much more of a sense of being rooted, they care about their town, their community and their nation. and then those who are anti-parochial and who — whenever i get confused, i just think of the john lennon song "imagine." "imagine there's no countries, nothing to kill or die for." and so these are the people who want more global governance, they don't like nation states, they don't like borders. you see this all over europe as well. there's a great metaphor guy — actually, his name is shakespeare — writing ten years ago in britain. he had a metaphor: "are we drawbridge-uppers or drawbridge-downers?" and britain is divided 52-48 on that point. and america is divided on that point, too.ca: and so, those of us who grew up with the beatles and that sort of hippie philosophy of dreaming of a more connected world — it felt so idealistic and "how could anyone think badly about that?" and what you're saying is that, actually, millions of people today feel that that isn't just silly; it's actually dangerous and wrong, and they're scared of it.jh: i think the big issue, especially in europe but also here, is the issue of immigration. and i think this is where we have to look very carefully at the social science about diversity and immigration. once something becomes politicized, once it becomes something that the left loves and the right — then even the social scientists can't think straight about it. now, diversity is good in a lot of ways. it clearly creates more innovation. the american economy has grown enormously from it. diversity and immigration do a lot of good things. but what the globalists, i think, don't see, what they don't want to see, is that ethnic diversity cuts social capital and trust.there's a very important study by robert putnam, the author of "bowling alone," looking at social capital databases. and basically, the more people feel that they are the same, the more they trust each other, the more they can have a redistributionist welfare state. scandinavian countries are so wonderful because they have this legacy of being small, homogenous countries. and that leads to a progressive welfare state, a set of progressive left-leaning values, which says, "drawbridge down! the world is a great place. people in syria are suffering — we must welcome them in." and it's a beautiful thing. but if, and i was in sweden this summer, if the discourse in sweden is fairly politically correct and they can't talk about the downsides, you end up bringing a lot of people in. that's going to cut social capital, it makes it hard to have a welfare state and they might end up, as we have in america, with a racially divided, visibly racially divided, society. so this is all very uncomfortable to talk about. but i think this is the thing, especially in europe and for us, too, we need to be looking at.ca: you're saying that people of reason, people who would consider themselves not racists, but moral, upstanding people, have a rationale that says humans are just too different; that we're in danger of overloading our sense of what humans are capable of, by mixing in people who are too different.jh: yes, but i can make it much more palatable by saying it's not necessarily about race. it's about culture. there's wonderful work by a political scientist named karen stenner, who shows that when people have a sense that we are all united, we're all the same, there are many people who have a predisposition to authoritarianism. those people aren't particularly racist when they feel as through there's not a threat to our social and moral order. but if you prime them experimentally by thinking we're coming apart, people are getting more different, then they get more racist, homophobic, they want to kick out the deviants. so it's in part that you get an authoritarian reaction. the left, following through the lennonist line — the john lennon line — does things that create an authoritarian reaction.we're certainly seeing that in america with the alt-right. we saw it in britain, we've seen it all over europe. but the more positive part of that is that i think the localists, or the nationalists, are actually right — that, if you emphasize our cultural similarity, then race doesn't actually matter very much. so an assimilationist approach to immigration removes a lot of these problems. and if you value having a generous welfare state, you've got to emphasize that we're all the same.ca: ok, so rising immigration and fears about that are one of the causes of the current divide. what are other causes?jh: the next principle of moral psychology is that intuitions come first, strategic reasoning second. you've probably heard the term "motivated reasoning" or "confirmation bias." there's some really interesting work on how our high intelligence and our verbal abilities might have evolved not to help us find out the truth, but to help us manipulate each other, defend our reputation ... we're really, really good at justifying ourselves. and when you bring group interests into account, so it's not just me, it's my team versus your team, whereas if you're evaluating evidence that your side is wrong, we just can't accept that. so this is why you can't win a political argument. if you're debating something, you can't persuade the person with reasons and evidence, because that's not the way reasoning works. so now, give us the internet, give us google: "i heard that barack obama was born in kenya. let me google that — oh my god! 10 million hits! look, he was!"ca: so this has come as an unpleasant surprise to a lot of people. social media has often been framed by techno-optimists as this great connecting force that would bring people together. and there have been some unexpected counter-effects to that.jh: that's right. that's why i'm very enamored of yin-yang views of human nature and left-right — that each side is right about certain things, but then it goes blind to other things. and so the left generally believes that human nature is good: bring people together, knock down the walls and all will be well. the right — social conservatives, not libertarians — social conservatives generally believe people can be greedy and sexual and selfish, and we need regulation, and we need restrictions. so, yeah, if you knock down all the walls, allow people to communicate all over the world, you get a lot of porn and a lot of racism.ca: so help us understand. these principles of human nature have been with us forever. what's changed that's deepened this feeling of division?jh: you have to see six to ten different threads all coming together. i'll just list a couple of them. so in america, one of the big — actually, america and europe — one of the biggest ones is world war ii. there's interesting research from joe henrich and others that says if your country was at war, especially when you were young, then we test you 30 years later in a commons dilemma or a prisoner's dilemma, you're more cooperative. because of our tribal nature, if you're — my parents were teenagers during world war ii, and they would go out looking for scraps of aluminum to help the war effort. i mean, everybody pulled together. and so then these people go on, they rise up through business and government, they take leadership positions. they're really good at compromise and cooperation. they all retire by the '90s. so we're left with baby boomers by the end of the '90s. and their youth was spent fighting each other within each country, in 1968 and afterwards. the loss of the world war ii generation, "the greatest generation," is huge. so that's one.another, in america, is the purification of the two parties. there used to be liberal republicans and conservative democrats. so america had a mid-20th century that was really bipartisan. but because of a variety of factors that started things moving, by the 90's, we had a purified liberal party and conservative party. so now, the people in either party really are different, and we really don't want our children to marry them, which, in the '60s, didn't matter very much. so, the purification of the parties. third is the internet and, as i said, it's just the most amazing stimulant for post-hoc reasoning and demonization.ca: the tone of what's happening on the internet now is quite troubling. i just did a quick search on twitter about the election and saw two tweets next to each other. one, against a picture of racist graffiti: "this is disgusting! ugliness in this country, brought to us by #trump." and then the next one is: "crooked hillary dedication page. disgusting!" so this idea of "disgust" is troubling to me. because you can have an argument or a disagreement about something, you can get angry at someone. disgust, i've heard you say, takes things to a much deeper level.jh: that's right. disgust is different. anger — you know, i have kids. they fight 10 times a day, and they love each other 30 times a day. you just go back and forth: you get angry, you're not angry; you're angry, you're not angry. but disgust is different. disgust paints the person as subhuman, monstrous, deformed, morally deformed. disgust is like indelible ink. there's research from john gottman on marital therapy. if you look at the faces — if one of the couple shows disgust or contempt, that's a predictor that they're going to get divorced soon, whereas if they show anger, that doesn't predict anything, because if you deal with anger well, it actually is good.so this election is different. donald trump personally uses the word "disgust" a lot. he's very germ-sensitive, so disgust does matter a lot — more for him, that's something unique to him — but as we demonize each other more, and again, through the manichaean worldview, the idea that the world is a battle between good and evil as this has been ramping up, we're more likely not just to say they're wrong or i don't like them, but we say they're evil, they're satanic, they're disgusting, they're revolting. and then we want nothing to do with them. and that's why i think we're seeing it, for example, on campus now. we're seeing more the urge to keep people off campus, silence them, keep them away. i'm afraid that this whole generation of young people, if their introduction to politics involves a lot of disgust, they're not going to want to be involved in politics as they get older.ca: so how do we deal with that? disgust. how do you defuse disgust?jh: you can't do it with reasons. i think ... i studied disgust for many years, and i think about emotions a lot. and i think that the opposite of disgust is actually love. love is all about, like ... disgust is closing off, borders. love is about dissolving walls. so personal relationships, i think, are probably the most powerful means we have. you can be disgusted by a group of people, but then you meet a particular person and you genuinely discover that they're lovely. and then gradually that chips away or changes your category as well. the tragedy is, americans used to be much more mixed up in the their towns by left-right or politics. and now that it's become this great moral divide, there's a lot of evidence that we're moving to be near people who are like us politically. it's harder to find somebody who's on the other side. so they're over there, they're far away. it's harder to get to know them.ca: what would you say to someone or say to americans, people generally, about what we should understand about each other that might help us rethink for a minute this "disgust" instinct?jh: yes. a really important thing to keep in mind — there's research by political scientist alan abramowitz, showing that american democracy is increasingly governed by what's called "negative partisanship." that means you think, ok there's a candidate, you like the candidate, you vote for the candidate. but with the rise of negative advertising and social media and all sorts of other trends, increasingly, the way elections are done is that each side tries to make the other side so horrible, so awful, that you'll vote for my guy by default.and so as we more and more vote against the other side and not for our side, you have to keep in mind that if people are on the left, they think, "well, i used to think that republicans were bad, but now donald trump proves it. and now every republican, i can paint with all the things that i think about trump." and that's not necessarily true. they're generally not very happy with their candidate.this is the most negative partisanship election in american history. so you have to first separate your feelings about the candidate from your feelings about the people who are given a choice. and then you have to realize that, because we all live in a separate moral world — the metaphor i use in the book is that we're all trapped in "the matrix," or each moral community is a matrix, a consensual hallucination. and so if you're within the blue matrix, everything's completely compelling that the other side — they're troglodytes, they're racists, they're the worst people in the world, and you have all the facts to back that up. but somebody in the next house from yours is living in a different moral matrix. they live in a different video game, and they see a completely different set of facts. and each one sees different threats to the country. and what i've found from being in the middle and trying to understand both sides is: both sides are right. there are a lot of threats to this country, and each side is constitutionally incapable of seeing them all.ca: so, are you saying that we almost need a new type of empathy? empathy is traditionally framed as: "oh, i feel your pain. i can put myself in your shoes." and we apply it to the poor, the needy, the suffering. we don't usually apply it to people who we feel as other, or we're disgusted by.jh: no. that's right.ca: what would it look like to build that type of empathy?jh: actually, i think ... empathy is a very, very hot topic in psychology, and it's a very popular word on the left in particular. empathy is a good thing, and empathy for the preferred classes of victims. so it's important to empathize with the groups that we on the left think are so important. that's easy to do, because you get points for that.but empathy really should get you points if you do it when it's hard to do. and, i think ... you know, we had a long 50-year period of dealing with our race problems and legal discrimination, and that was our top priority for a long time and it still is important. but i think this year, i'm hoping it will make people see that we have an existential threat on our hands. our left-right divide, i believe, is by far the most important divide we face. we still have issues about race and gender and lgbt, but this is the urgent need of the next 50 years, and things aren't going to get better on their own. so we're going to need to do a lot of institutional reforms, and we could talk about that, but that's like a whole long, wonky conversation. but i think it starts with people realizing that this is a turning point. and yes, we need a new kind of empathy. we need to realize: this is what our country needs, and this is what you need if you don't want to — raise your hand if you want to spend the next four years as angry and worried as you've been for the last year — raise your hand. so if you want to escape from this, read buddha, read jesus, read marcus aurelius. they have all kinds of great advice for how to drop the fear, reframe things, stop seeing other people as your enemy. there's a lot of guidance in ancient wisdom for this kind of empathy.ca: here's my last question: personally, what can people do to help heal?jh: yeah, it's very hard to just decide to overcome your deepest prejudices. and there's research showing that political prejudices are deeper and stronger than race prejudices in the country now. so i think you have to make an effort — that's the main thing. make an effort to actually meet somebody. everybody has a cousin, a brother-in-law, somebody who's on the other side. so, after this election — wait a week or two, because it's probably going to feel awful for one of you — but wait a couple weeks, and then reach out and say you want to talk. and before you do it, read dale carnegie, "how to win friends and influence people" — i'm totally serious. you'll learn techniques if you start by acknowledging, if you start by saying, "you know, we don't agree on a lot, but one thing i really respect about you, uncle bob," or "... about you conservatives, is ... " and you can find something. if you start with some appreciation, it's like magic. this is one of the main things i've learned that i take into my human relationships. i still make lots of stupid mistakes, but i'm incredibly good at apologizing now, and at acknowledging what somebody was right about. and if you do that, then the conversation goes really well, and it's actually really fun.ca: jon, it's absolutely fascinating speaking with you. it really does feel like the ground that we're on is a ground populated by deep questions of morality and human nature. your wisdom couldn't be more relevant. thank you so much for sharing this time with us.jh: thanks, chris.jh: thanks, everyone. <title = "Easy DIY projects for kid engineers">
<tags = "['TED Residency', 'children', 'computers', 'creativity', 'design', 'education', 'engineering', 'innovation', 'invention', 'personal growth', 'programming', 'teaching', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Technologist">
i design engineering projects for middle school and high school students, often using materials that are pretty unexpected. my inspiration comes from problems in my daily life. for example, one time i needed a costume to go to a comic convention, but i didn't want to spend too much money, so i made my own ... with a light-up crown and skirt. another time, i was devastated because my favorite mobile game, flappy bird, was being taken off the app store. so i was faced with the dilemma to either never update my phone or never play flappy bird again. unhappy with both options, i did the only thing that made sense to me. i made a physical version of flappy bird that could never be taken off the app store. (music)(beeping)(music) so a few of my friends were also pretty addicted to the game, and i invited them to play as well.(video) friend: ah! (video) friend: what the heck? and they told me that it was just as infuriating as the original game. so i uploaded a demo of this project online, and to my surprise it went viral. it had over two million views in just a few days. and what's more interesting are people's comments. a lot of people wanted to make it their own, or asked me how it was made. so this kind of confirmed my idea that through a creative project, we can teach people about engineering.with the money made from the viral video, we were able to let students in our classroom all make their own game in a box. although it was pretty challenging, they learned a lot of new concepts in engineering and programming. and they were all eager to learn so they could finish the game as well. so before flappy bird box, i had the idea of using creative engineering projects to teach students. when i was teaching at a middle school, we asked our students to build a robot from a standard technology kit. and i noticed that a lot of them seemed bored. then a few of them started taking pieces of paper and decorating their robots. and then more of them got into it, and they became more interested in the project. so i started looking for more creative ways to introduce technology to students. what i found was that most technology kits available in school look a little intimidating. they're all made of plastic parts that you can't customize. on top of that, they're all very expensive, costing hundreds of dollars per kit. so that's certainly not very affordable for most classroom budgets.since i didn't find anything, i decided to make something on my own. i started with paper and fabric. after all, we all played with those since we were kids, and they are also pretty cheap and can be found anywhere around the house. and i prototyped a project where students can create a light-up creature using fabric and googly eyes. they were all helping each other in classrooms, and were laughing and discussing the project. and most importantly, they were able to insert their own creativity into the project.so because of the success of this project, i continued to create more engineering projects to challenge my students. and i also started to take these workshops outside of school and into the community. and something really interesting happened. i noticed a lot of people from very diverse backgrounds started coming to our workshops. and specifically, there were a lot more women and minorities than i expected, and that you wouldn't usually see at a traditional engineering workshop.now take a look at this employee report at a major technology company in 2016. women make up only 19 percent of the technology workforce. and underrepresented minorities make up only four percent. this statistic might look familiar if you walked into a high school robotics club, or a college engineering class.now, there's a wide variety of problems that contribute to the lack of diversity in the technology force. perhaps one solution could be to introduce technology to students through creative projects. i'm not saying that this could solve everything, but it could introduce technology to people who originally wouldn't be interested in it because of how it has been portrayed and taught in school.so how do we start to change the perception of technology? most students think that it's boring or unwelcoming, so i have always designed projects following three principles. first is having a low floor, and that means this project is easy to get started. so take a look at this tutorial. the first project we asked students to learn is to make a circuit on paper. as you can see, it doesn't take very long to learn, and it's pretty easy even for beginners. and having a low floor also means that we're removing the financial barrier that prevents people from completing a project. so with paper, copper tape, lightbulb and a battery, people can complete this project for under a dollar.so second principle is having a high ceiling. this means that there's a lot of room to grow, and students are constantly being challenged. at first it might just be a light-up creature, but then you can add sensors and microcontrollers, and start to program the creature to interact with its environment. and finally, the third principle is customization. this means that we can make this project relevant to anyone. that's the beauty of using everyday materials; it's very easy to customize using paper and fabric. so even if you don't like flappy bird, you can still make your own game.(video) student: so our game is about justin bieber, because he's been speeding, and the object is to prevent him from getting caught by the lapd — (video) student: yeah, but he's changing so — we're a part of his posse. thank you. <title = "We train soldiers for war. Let's train them to come home, too">
<tags = "['PTSD', 'depression', 'mental health', 'military', 'psychology', 'society', 'war']">
<occupation = "Psychologist">
carlos, the vietnam vet marine who volunteered for three tours and got shot up in every one. in 1971, he was medically retired because he had so much shrapnel in his body that he was setting off metal detectors. for the next 42 years, he suffered from nightmares, extreme anxiety in public, isolation, depression. he self-medicated with alcohol. he was married and divorced three times. carlos had post-traumatic stress disorder.now, i became a psychologist to help mitigate human suffering, and for the past 10 years, my target has been the suffering caused by ptsd, as experienced by veterans like carlos. until recently, the science of ptsd just wasn't there. and so, we didn't know what to do. we put some veterans on heavy drugs. others we hospitalized and gave generic group therapy, and others still we simply said to them, "just go home and try to forget about your experiences." more recently, we've tried therapy dogs, wilderness retreats — many things which may temporarily relieve stress, but which don't actually eliminate ptsd symptoms over the long term.but things have changed. and i am here to tell you that we can now eliminate ptsd, not just manage the symptoms, and in huge numbers of veterans. because new scientific research has been able to show, objectively, repeatedly, which treatments actually get rid of symptoms and which do not.now as it turns out, the best treatments for ptsd use many of the very same training principles that the military uses in preparing its trainees for war.now, making war — this is something that we are good at. we humans have been making war since before we were even fully human. and since then, we have gone from using stone and sinew to developing the most sophisticated and devastating weapon systems imaginable. and to enable our warriors to use these weapons, we employ the most cutting-edge training methods. we are good at making war. and we are good at training our warriors to fight.yet, when we consider the experience of the modern-day combat veteran, we begin to see that we have not been as good at preparing them to come home. why is that? well, our ancestors lived immersed in conflict, and they fought right where they lived. so until only very recently in our evolutionary history, there was hardly a need to learn how to come home from war, because we never really did. but thankfully, today, most of humanity lives in far more peaceful societies, and when there is conflict, we, especially in the united states, now have the technology to put our warriors through advanced training, drop them in to fight anywhere on the globe and when they're done, jet them back to peacetime suburbia.but just imagine for a moment what this must feel like. i've spoken with veterans who've told me that one day they're in a brutal firefight in afghanistan where they saw carnage and death, and just three days later, they found themselves toting an ice chest to their kid's soccer game. "mindfuck" is the most common term. it's the most common term i've heard to describe that experience. and that's exactly what that is. because while our warriors spend countless hours training for war, we've only recently come to understand that many require training on how to return to civilian life.now, like any training, the best ptsd treatments require repetition. in the military, we don't simply hand trainees mark-19 automatic grenade launchers and say, "here's the trigger, here's some ammo and good luck." no. we train them, on the range and in specific contexts, over and over and over until lifting their weapon and engaging their target is so engrained into muscle memory that it can be performed without even thinking, even under the most stressful conditions you can imagine.now, the same holds for training-based treatments. the first of these treatments is cognitive therapy, and this is a kind of mental recalibration. when veterans come home from war, their way of mentally framing the world is calibrated to an immensely more dangerous environment. so when you try to overlay that mind frame onto a peacetime environment, you get problems. you begin drowning in worries about dangers that aren't present. you begin not trusting family or friends. which is not to say there are no dangers in civilian life; there are. it's just that the probability of encountering them compared to combat is astronomically lower.so we never advise veterans to turn off caution completely. we do train them, however, to adjust caution according to where they are. if you find yourself in a bad neighborhood, you turn it up. out to dinner with family? you turn it way down. we train veterans to be fiercely rational, to systematically gauge the actual statistical probability of encountering, say, an ied here in peacetime america. with enough practice, those recalibrations stick.the next of these treatments is exposure therapy, and this is a kind of field training, and the fastest of the proven effective treatments out there.you remember carlos? this was the treatment that he chose. and so we started off by giving him exercises, for him, challenging ones: going to a grocery store, going to a shopping mall, going to a restaurant, sitting with his back to the door. and, critically — staying in these environments. now, at first he was very anxious. he wanted to sit where he could scan the room, where he could plan escape routes, where he could get his hands on a makeshift weapon. and he wanted to leave, but he didn't. he remembered his training in the marine corps, and he pushed through his discomfort. and every time he did this, his anxiety ratcheted down a little bit, and then a little bit more and then a little bit more, until in the end, he had effectively relearned how to sit in a public space and just enjoy himself.he also listened to recordings of his combat experiences, over and over and over. he listened until those memories no longer generated any anxiety. he processed his memories so much that his brain no longer needed to return to those experiences in his sleep. and when i spoke with him a year after treatment had finished, he told me, "doc, this is the first time in 43 years that i haven't had nightmares."now, this is different than erasing a memory. veterans will always remember their traumatic experiences, but with enough practice, those memories are no longer as raw or as painful as they once were. they don't feel emotionally like they just happened yesterday, and that is an immensely better place to be.but it's often difficult. and, like any training, it may not work for everybody. and there are trust issues. sometimes i'm asked, "if you haven't been there, doc, how can you help me?" which is understandable. but at the point of returning to civilian life, you do not require somebody who's been there. you don't require training for operations on the battlefield; you require training on how to come home.for the past 10 years of my work, i have been exposed to detailed accounts of the worst experiences that you can imagine, daily. and it hasn't always been easy. there have been times where i have just felt my heart break or that i've absorbed too much. but these training-based treatments work so well, that whatever this work takes out of me, it puts back even more, because i see people get better. i see people's lives transform.carlos can now enjoy outings with his grandchildren, which is something he couldn't even do with his own children. and what's amazing to me is that after 43 years of suffering, it only took him 10 weeks of intense training to get his life back. and when i spoke with him, he told me, "i know that i can't get those years back. but at least now, whatever days that i have left on this earth, i can live them in peace." he also said, "i hope that these younger veterans don't wait to get the help they need." and that's my hope, too. because ... this life is short, and if you are fortunate enough to have survived war or any kind of traumatic experience, you owe it to yourself to live your life well. and you shouldn't wait to get the training you need to make that happen.now, the best way of ending human suffering caused by war is to never go to war. but we are just not there yet as a species. until we are, the mental suffering that we create in our sons and in our daughters when we send them off to fight can be alleviated. but we must ensure that the science, the energy level, the value that we place on sending them off to war is at the very least mirrored in how well we prepare them to come back home to us. this much, we owe them.thank you. <title = "The urgency of intersectionality">
<tags = "['activism', 'community', 'gender', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'violence', 'women']">
<occupation = "Civil rights advocate">
i'd like to try something new. those of you who are able, please stand up. ok, so i'm going to name some names. when you hear a name that you don't recognize, you can't tell me anything about them, i'd like you to take a seat and stay seated. the last person standing, we're going to see what they know. ok? all right. eric garner. mike brown. tamir rice. freddie gray.so those of you who are still standing, i'd like you to turn around and take a look. i'd say half to most of the people are still standing. so let's continue.michelle cusseaux. tanisha anderson. aura rosser. meagan hockaday.so if we look around again, there are about four people still standing, and actually i'm not going to put you on the spot. i just say that to encourage transparency, so you can be seated. so those of you who recognized the first group of names know that these were african-americans who have been killed by the police over the last two and a half years. what you may not know is that the other list is also african-americans who have been killed within the last two years. only one thing distinguishes the names that you know from the names that you don't know: gender.so let me first let you know that there's nothing at all distinct about this audience that explains the pattern of recognition that we've just seen. i've done this exercise dozens of times around the country. i've done it to women's rights organizations. i've done it with civil rights groups. i've done it with professors. i've done it with students. i've done it with psychologists. i've done it with sociologists. i've done it even with progressive members of congress. and everywhere, the awareness of the level of police violence that black women experience is exceedingly low.now, it is surprising, isn't it, that this would be the case. i mean, there are two issues involved here. there's police violence against african-americans, and there's violence against women, two issues that have been talked about a lot lately. but when we think about who is implicated by these problems, when we think about who is victimized by these problems, the names of these black women never come to mind.now, communications experts tell us that when facts do not fit with the available frames, people have a difficult time incorporating new facts into their way of thinking about a problem. these women's names have slipped through our consciousness because there are no frames for us to see them, no frames for us to remember them, no frames for us to hold them. as a consequence, reporters don't lead with them, policymakers don't think about them, and politicians aren't encouraged or demanded that they speak to them.now, you might ask, why does a frame matter? i mean, after all, an issue that affects black people and an issue that affects women, wouldn't that necessarily include black people who are women and women who are black people? well, the simple answer is that this is a trickle-down approach to social justice, and many times it just doesn't work. without frames that allow us to see how social problems impact all the members of a targeted group, many will fall through the cracks of our movements, left to suffer in virtual isolation. but it doesn't have to be this way.many years ago, i began to use the term "intersectionality" to deal with the fact that many of our social justice problems like racism and sexism are often overlapping, creating multiple levels of social injustice.now, the experience that gave rise to intersectionality was my chance encounter with a woman named emma degraffenreid. emma degraffenreid was an african-american woman, a working wife and a mother. i actually read about emma's story from the pages of a legal opinion written by a judge who had dismissed emma's claim of race and gender discrimination against a local car manufacturing plant. emma, like so many african-american women, sought better employment for her family and for others. she wanted to create a better life for her children and for her family. but she applied for a job, and she was not hired, and she believed that she was not hired because she was a black woman.now, the judge in question dismissed emma's suit, and the argument for dismissing the suit was that the employer did hire african-americans and the employer hired women. the real problem, though, that the judge was not willing to acknowledge was what emma was actually trying to say, that the african-americans that were hired, usually for industrial jobs, maintenance jobs, were all men. and the women that were hired, usually for secretarial or front-office work, were all white. only if the court was able to see how these policies came together would he be able to see the double discrimination that emma degraffenreid was facing. but the court refused to allow emma to put two causes of action together to tell her story because he believed that, by allowing her to do that, she would be able to have preferential treatment. she would have an advantage by having two swings at the bat, when african-american men and white women only had one swing at the bat. but of course, neither african-american men or white women needed to combine a race and gender discrimination claim to tell the story of the discrimination they were experiencing. why wasn't the real unfairness law's refusal to protect african-american women simply because their experiences weren't exactly the same as white women and african-american men? rather than broadening the frame to include african-american women, the court simply tossed their case completely out of court.now, as a student of antidiscrimination law, as a feminist, as an antiracist, i was struck by this case. it felt to me like injustice squared. so first of all, black women weren't allowed to work at the plant. second of all, the court doubled down on this exclusion by making it legally inconsequential. and to boot, there was no name for this problem. and we all know that, where there's no name for a problem, you can't see a problem, and when you can't see a problem, you pretty much can't solve it.many years later, i had come to recognize that the problem that emma was facing was a framing problem. the frame that the court was using to see gender discrimination or to see race discrimination was partial, and it was distorting. for me, the challenge that i faced was trying to figure out whether there was an alternative narrative, a prism that would allow us to see emma's dilemma, a prism that would allow us to rescue her from the cracks in the law, that would allow judges to see her story.so it occurred to me, maybe a simple analogy to an intersection might allow judges to better see emma's dilemma. so if we think about this intersection, the roads to the intersection would be the way that the workforce was structured by race and by gender. and then the traffic in those roads would be the hiring policies and the other practices that ran through those roads. now, because emma was both black and female, she was positioned precisely where those roads overlapped, experiencing the simultaneous impact of the company's gender and race traffic. the law — the law is like that ambulance that shows up and is ready to treat emma only if it can be shown that she was harmed on the race road or on the gender road but not where those roads intersected.so what do you call being impacted by multiple forces and then abandoned to fend for yourself? intersectionality seemed to do it for me.i would go on to learn that african-american women, like other women of color, like other socially marginalized people all over the world, were facing all kinds of dilemmas and challenges as a consequence of intersectionality, intersections of race and gender, of heterosexism, transphobia, xenophobia, ableism, all of these social dynamics come together and create challenges that are sometimes quite unique. but in the same way that intersectionality raised our awareness to the way that black women live their lives, it also exposes the tragic circumstances under which african-american women die.police violence against black women is very real. the level of violence that black women face is such that it's not surprising that some of them do not survive their encounters with police. black girls as young as seven, great grandmothers as old as 95 have been killed by the police. they've been killed in their living rooms, in their bedrooms. they've been killed in their cars. they've been killed on the street. they've been killed in front of their parents and they've been killed in front of their children. they have been shot to death. they have been stomped to death. they have been suffocated to death. they have been manhandled to death. they have been tasered to death. they've been killed when they've called for help. they've been killed when they were alone, and they've been killed when they were with others. they've been killed shopping while black, driving while black, having a mental disability while black, having a domestic disturbance while black. they've even been killed being homeless while black. they've been killed talking on the cell phone, laughing with friends, sitting in a car reported as stolen and making a u-turn in front of the white house with an infant strapped in the backseat of the car. why don't we know these stories? why is it that their lost lives don't generate the same amount of media attention and communal outcry as the lost lives of their fallen brothers? it's time for a change.so what can we do? in 2014, the african-american policy forum began to demand that we "say her name" at rallies, at protests, at conferences, at meetings, anywhere and everywhere that state violence against black bodies is being discussed. but saying her name is not enough. we have to be willing to do more. we have to be willing to bear witness, to bear witness to the often painful realities that we would just rather not confront, the everyday violence and humiliation that many black women have had to face, black women across color, age, gender expression, sexuality and ability.so we have the opportunity right now — bearing in mind that some of the images that i'm about to share with you may be triggering for some — to collectively bear witness to some of this violence. we're going to hear the voice of the phenomenal abby dobson. and as we sit with these women, some who have experienced violence and some who have not survived them, we have an opportunity to reverse what happened at the beginning of this talk, when we could not stand for these women because we did not know their names.so at the end of this clip, there's going to be a roll call. several black women's names will come up. i'd like those of you who are able to join us in saying these names as loud as you can, randomly, disorderly. let's create a cacophony of sound to represent our intention to hold these women up, to sit with them, to bear witness to them, to bring them into the light.(singing) abby dobson: say, say her name.say, say her name.(audience) shelly!(audience) kayla!ad: oh, say her name.(audience shouting names)say, say, say her name.say her name.for all the names i'll never know,say her name.kc: aiyanna stanley jones, janisha fonville, kathryn johnston, kayla moore, michelle cusseaux, rekia boyd, shelly frey, tarika, yvette smith.ad: say her name.kc: so i said at the beginning, if we can't see a problem, we can't fix a problem. together, we've come together to bear witness to these women's lost lives. but the time now is to move from mourning and grief to action and transformation. this is something that we can do. it's up to us.thank you for joining us. thank you. <title = "How the blockchain will radically transform the economy">
<tags = "['Internet', 'blockchain', 'business', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'data', 'economics', 'future', 'innovation', 'privacy', 'security', 'society', 'software', 'technology', 'trust', 'wikipedia']">
<occupation = "Blockchain entrepreneur and researcher">
economists have been exploring people's behavior for hundreds of years: how we make decisions, how we act individually and in groups, how we exchange value. they've studied the institutions that facilitate our trade, like legal systems, corporations, marketplaces. but there is a new, technological institution that will fundamentally change how we exchange value, and it's called the blockchain.now, that's a pretty bold statement, but if you take nothing else away from this talk, i actually want you to remember that while blockchain technology is relatively new, it's also a continuation of a very human story, and the story is this. as humans, we find ways to lower uncertainty about one another so that we can exchange value.now, one of the first people to really explore the idea of institutions as a tool in economics to lower our uncertainties about one another and be able to do trade was the nobel economist douglass north. he passed away at the end of 2015, but north pioneered what's called "new institutional economics." and what he meant by institutions were really just formal rules like a constitution, and informal constraints, like bribery. these institutions are really the grease that allow our economic wheels to function, and we can see this play out over the course of human history.if we think back to when we were hunter-gatherer economies, we really just traded within our village structure. we had some informal constraints in place, but we enforced all of our trade with violence or social repercussions. as our societies grew more complex and our trade routes grew more distant, we built up more formal institutions, institutions like banks for currency, governments, corporations. these institutions helped us manage our trade as the uncertainty and the complexity grew, and our personal control was much lower. eventually with the internet, we put these same institutions online. we built platform marketplaces like amazon, ebay, alibaba, just faster institutions that act as middlemen to facilitate human economic activity.as douglass north saw it, institutions are a tool to lower uncertainty so that we can connect and exchange all kinds of value in society. and i believe we are now entering a further and radical evolution of how we interact and trade, because for the first time, we can lower uncertainty not just with political and economic institutions, like our banks, our corporations, our governments, but we can do it with technology alone.so what is the blockchain? blockchain technology is a decentralized database that stores a registry of assets and transactions across a peer-to-peer network. it's basically a public registry of who owns what and who transacts what. the transactions are secured through cryptography, and over time, that transaction history gets locked in blocks of data that are then cryptographically linked together and secured. this creates an immutable, unforgeable record of all of the transactions across this network. this record is replicated on every computer that uses the network.it's not an app. it's not a company. i think it's closest in description to something like wikipedia. we can see everything on wikipedia. it's a composite view that's constantly changing and being updated. we can also track those changes over time on wikipedia, and we can create our own wikis, because at their core, they're just a data infrastructure. on wikipedia, it's an open platform that stores words and images and the changes to that data over time. on the blockchain, you can think of it as an open infrastructure that stores many kinds of assets. it stores the history of custodianship, ownership and location for assets like the digital currency bitcoin, other digital assets like a title of ownership of ip. it could be a certificate, a contract, real world objects, even personal identifiable information. there are of course other technical details to the blockchain, but at its core, that's how it works. it's this public registry that stores transactions in a network and is replicated so that it's very secure and hard to tamper with.which brings me to my point of how blockchains lower uncertainty and how they therefore promise to transform our economic systems in radical ways. so uncertainty is kind of a big term in economics, but i want to go through three forms of it that we face in almost all of our everyday transactions, where blockchains can play a role. we face uncertainties like not knowing who we're dealing with, not having visibility into a transaction and not having recourse if things go wrong.so let's take the first example, not knowing who we're dealing with. say i want to buy a used smartphone on ebay. the first thing i'm going to do is look up who i'm buying from. are they a power user? do they have great reviews and ratings, or do they have no profile at all? reviews, ratings, checkmarks: these are the attestations about our identities that we cobble together today and use to lower uncertainty about who we're dealing with. but the problem is they're very fragmented. think about how many profiles you have. blockchains allow for us to create an open, global platform on which to store any attestation about any individual from any source. this allows us to create a user-controlled portable identity. more than a profile, it means you can selectively reveal the different attributes about you that help facilitate trade or interaction, for instance that a government issued you an id, or that you're over 21, by revealing the cryptographic proof that these details exist and are signed off on. having this kind of portable identity around the physical world and the digital world means we can do all kinds of human trade in a totally new way.so i've talked about how blockchains could lower uncertainty in who we're dealing with. the second uncertainty that we often face is just not having transparency into our interactions. say you're going to send me that smartphone by mail. i want some degree of transparency. i want to know that the product i bought is the same one that arrives in the mail and that there's some record for how it got to me. this is true not just for electronics like smartphones, but for many kinds of goods and data, things like medicine, luxury goods, any kind of data or product that we don't want tampered with.the problem in many companies, especially those that produce something complicated like a smartphone, is they're managing all of these different vendors across a horizontal supply chain. all of these people that go into making a product, they don't have the same database. they don't use the same infrastructure, and so it becomes really hard to see transparently a product evolve over time.using the blockchain, we can create a shared reality across nontrusting entities. by this i mean all of these nodes in the network do not need to know each other or trust each other, because they each have the ability to monitor and validate the chain for themselves. think back to wikipedia. it's a shared database, and even though it has multiple readers and multiple writers at the same time, it has one single truth. so we can create that using blockchains. we can create a decentralized database that has the same efficiency of a monopoly without actually creating that central authority. so all of these vendors, all sorts of companies, can interact using the same database without trusting one another. it means for consumers, we can have a lot more transparency. as a real-world object travels along, we can see its digital certificate or token move on the blockchain, adding value as it goes. this is a whole new world in terms of our visibility.so i've talked about how blockchains can lower our uncertainties about identity and how they change what we mean about transparency in long distances and complex trades, like in a supply chain. the last uncertainty that we often face is one of the most open-ended, and it's reneging. what if you don't send me the smartphone? can i get my money back? blockchains allow us to write code, binding contracts, between individuals and then guarantee that those contracts will bear out without a third party enforcer. so if we look at the smartphone example, you could think about escrow. you are financing that phone, but you don't need to release the funds until you can verify that all the conditions have been met. you got the phone.i think this is one of the most exciting ways that blockchains lower our uncertainties, because it means to some degree we can collapse institutions and their enforcement. it means a lot of human economic activity can get collateralized and automated, and push a lot of human intervention to the edges, the places where information moves from the real world to the blockchain.i think what would probably floor douglass north about this use of technology is the fact that the very thing that makes it work, the very thing that keeps the blockchain secure and verified, is our mutual distrust. so rather than all of our uncertainties slowing us down and requiring institutions like banks, our governments, our corporations, we can actually harness all of that collective uncertainty and use it to collaborate and exchange more and faster and more open.now, i don't want you to get the impression that the blockchain is the solution to everything, even though the media has said that it's going to end world poverty, it's also going to solve the counterfeit drug problem and potentially save the rainforest. the truth is, this technology is in its infancy, and we're going to need to see a lot of experiments take place and probably fail before we truly understand all of the use cases for our economy. but there are tons of people working on this, from financial institutions to technology companies, start-ups and universities. and one of the reasons is that it's not just an economic evolution. it's also an innovation in computer science.blockchains give us the technological capability of creating a record of human exchange, of exchange of currency, of all kinds of digital and physical assets, even of our own personal attributes, in a totally new way. so in some ways, they become a technological institution that has a lot of the benefits of the traditional institutions we're used to using in society, but it does this in a decentralized way. it does this by converting a lot of our uncertainties into certainties.so i think we need to start preparing ourselves, because we are about to face a world where distributed, autonomous institutions have quite a significant role.thank you. bruno giussani: thank you, bettina. i think i understood that it's coming, it offers a lot of potential, and it's complex. what is your estimate for the rate of adoption?bettina warburg: i think that's a really good question. my lab is pretty much focused on going the enterprise and government route first, because in reality, blockchain is a complex technology. how many of you actually understand how the internet works? but you use it every day, so i think we're sort of facing the same john sculley idea of technology should either be invisible or beautiful, and blockchain is kind of neither of those things right now, so it's better suited for either really early adopters who kind of get it and can tinker around or for finding those best use cases like identity or asset tracking or smart contracts that can be used at that level of an enterprise or government.bg: thank you. thanks for coming to ted.bw: thanks. <title = "The playful wonderland behind great inventions">
<tags = "['adventure', 'animation', 'art', 'beauty', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'design', 'discovery', 'exploration', 'history', 'innovation', 'invention', 'technology', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Writer">
(music)roughly 43,000 years ago, a young cave bear died in the rolling hills on the northwest border of modern day slovenia. a thousand years later, a mammoth died in southern germany. a few centuries after that, a griffon vulture also died in the same vicinity. and we know almost nothing about how these animals met their deaths, but these different creatures dispersed across both time and space did share one remarkable fate. after their deaths, a bone from each of their skeletons was crafted by human hands into a flute.think about that for a second. imagine you're a caveman, 40,000 years ago. you've mastered fire. you've built simple tools for hunting. you've learned how to craft garments from animal skins to keep yourself warm in the winter. what would you choose to invent next? it seems preposterous that you would invent the flute, a tool that created useless vibrations in air molecules. but that is exactly what our ancestors did.now this turns out to be surprisingly common in the history of innovation. sometimes people invent things because they want to stay alive or feed their children or conquer the village next door. but just as often, new ideas come into the world simply because they're fun. and here's the really strange thing: many of those playful but seemingly frivolous inventions ended up sparking momentous transformations in science, in politics and society.take what may be the most important invention of modern times: programmable computers. now, the standard story is that computers descend from military technology, since many of the early computers were designed specifically to crack wartime codes or calculate rocket trajectories. but in fact, the origins of the modern computer are much more playful, even musical, than you might imagine. the idea behind the flute, of just pushing air through tubes to make a sound, was eventually modified to create the first organ more than 2,000 years ago. someone came up with the brilliant idea of triggering sounds by pressing small levers with our fingers, inventing the first musical keyboard. now, keyboards evolved from organs to clavichords to harpsichords to the piano, until the middle of the 19th century, when a bunch of inventors finally hit on the idea of using a keyboard to trigger not sounds but letters. in fact, the very first typewriter was originally called "the writing harpsichord."flutes and music led to even more powerful breakthroughs. about a thousand years ago, at the height of the islamic renaissance, three brothers in baghdad designed a device that was an automated organ. they called it "the instrument that plays itself." now, the instrument was basically a giant music box. the organ could be trained to play various songs by using instructions encoded by placing pins on a rotating cylinder. and if you wanted the machine to play a different song, you just swapped a new cylinder in with a different code on it. this instrument was the first of its kind. it was programmable.now, conceptually, this was a massive leap forward. the whole idea of hardware and software becomes thinkable for the first time with this invention. and that incredibly powerful concept didn't come to us as an instrument of war or of conquest, or necessity at all. it came from the strange delight of watching a machine play music.in fact, the idea of programmable machines was exclusively kept alive by music for about 700 years. in the 1700s, music-making machines became the playthings of the parisian elite. showmen used the same coded cylinders to control the physical movements of what were called automata, an early kind of robot. one of the most famous of those robots was, you guessed it, an automated flute player designed by a brilliant french inventor named jacques de vaucanson.and as de vaucanson was designing his robot musician, he had another idea. if you could program a machine to make pleasing sounds, why not program it to weave delightful patterns of color out of cloth? instead of using the pins of the cylinder to represent musical notes, they would represent threads with different colors. if you wanted a new pattern for your fabric, you just programmed a new cylinder. this was the first programmable loom.now, the cylinders were too expensive and time-consuming to make, but a half century later, another french inventor named jacquard hit upon the brilliant idea of using paper-punched cards instead of metal cylinders. paper turned out to be much cheaper and more flexible as a way of programming the device. that punch card system inspired victorian inventor charles babbage to create his analytical engine, the first true programmable computer ever designed. and punch cards were used by computer programmers as late as the 1970s.so ask yourself this question: what really made the modern computer possible? yes, the military involvement is an important part of the story, but inventing a computer also required other building blocks: music boxes, toy robot flute players, harpsichord keyboards, colorful patterns woven into fabric, and that's just a small part of the story. there's a long list of world-changing ideas and technologies that came out of play: public museums, rubber, probability theory, the insurance business and many more.necessity isn't always the mother of invention. the playful state of mind is fundamentally exploratory, seeking out new possibilities in the world around us. and that seeking is why so many experiences that started with simple delight and amusement eventually led us to profound breakthroughs.now, i think this has implications for how we teach kids in school and how we encourage innovation in our workspaces, but thinking about play and delight this way also helps us detect what's coming next. think about it: if you were sitting there in 1750 trying to figure out the big changes coming to society in the 19th, the 20th centuries, automated machines, computers, artificial intelligence, a programmable flute entertaining the parisian elite would have been as powerful a clue as anything else at the time. it seemed like an amusement at best, not useful in any serious way, but it turned out to be the beginning of a tech revolution that would change the world.you'll find the future wherever people are having the most fun.<title = "Help for kids the education system ignores">
<tags = "['children', 'communication', 'compassion', 'education', 'empathy', 'identity', 'innovation', 'motivation', 'potential', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Educator, author">
for over a decade, i have studied young people that have been pushed out of school, so called "dropouts." as they end up failed by the education system, they're on the streets where they're vulnerable to violence, police harassment, police brutality and incarceration. i follow these young people for years at a time, across institutional settings, to try to understand what some of us call the "school-to-prison pipeline."when you look at a picture like this, of young people who are in my study ... you might see trouble. i mean one of the boys has a bottle of liquor in his hand, he's 14 years old and it's a school day. other people, when they see this picture, might see gangs, thugs, delinquents — criminals. but i see it different. i see these young people through a perspective that looks at the assets that they bring to the education system. so will you join me in changing the way we label young people from "at-risk" to "at-promise?" how do i know that these young people have the potential and the promise to change? i know this because i am one of them. you see, i grew up in dire poverty in the inner city, without a father — he abandoned me before i was even born. we were on welfare, sometimes homeless, many times hungry. by the time i was 15 years old, i had been incarcerated in juvy three times for three felonies. my best friend had already been killed. and soon after, while i'm standing next to my uncle, he gets shot. and as i'm waiting for the ambulance to arrive for over an hour ... he bleeds to death on the street. i had lost faith and hope in the world, and i had given up on the system because the system had failed me. i had nothing to offer and no one had anything to offer me. i was fatalistic. i didn't even think i could make it to my 18th birthday.the reason i'm here today is because a teacher that cared reached out and managed to tap into my soul. this teacher, ms. russ ... she was the kind of teacher that was always in your business. she was the kind of teacher that was like, "victor, i'm here for you whenever you're ready." i wasn't ready. but she understood one basic principle about young people like me. we're like oysters. we're only going to open up when we're ready, and if you're not there when we're ready, we're going to clam back up. ms. russ was there for me. she was culturally relevant, she respected my community, my people, my family. i told her a story about my uncle ruben. he would take me to work with him because i was broke, and he knew i needed some money. he collected glass bottles for a living. four in the morning on a school day, we'd throw the glass bottles in the back of his van, and the bottles would break. and my hands and arms would start to bleed and my tennis shoes and pants would get all bloody. and i was terrified and in pain, and i would stop working. and my uncle, he would look me in the eyes and he would say to me, "mijo, estamos buscando vida." "we're searching for a better life, we're trying to make something out of nothing."ms. russ listened to my story, welcomed it into the classroom and said, "victor, this is your power. this is your potential. your family, your culture, your community have taught you a hard-work ethic and you will use it to empower yourself in the academic world so you can come back and empower your community."with ms. russ's help, i ended up returning to school. i even finished my credits on time and graduated with my class. but ms. russ said to me right before graduation, "victor, i'm so proud of you. i knew you could do it. now it's time to go to college." college, me? man, what is this teacher smoking thinking i'm going to college? i applied with the mentors and support she provided, got a letter of acceptance, and one of the paragraphs read, "you've been admitted under probationary status." i said, "probation? i'm already on probation, that don't matter?" it was academic probation, not criminal probation. but what do teachers like ms. russ do to succeed with young people like the ones i study? i propose three strategies. the first: let's get rid of our deficit perspective in education. "these people come from a culture of violence, a culture of poverty. these people are at-risk; these people are truant. these people are empty containers for us to fill with knowledge. they have the problems, we have the solutions." number two. let's value the stories that young people bring to the schoolhouse. their stories of overcoming insurmountable odds are so powerful. and i know you know some of these stories. these very same stories and experiences already have grit, character and resilience in them. so let's help young people refine those stories. let's help them be proud of who they are, because our education system welcomes their families, their cultures, their communities and the skill set they've learned to survive. and of course the third strategy being the most important: resources. we have to provide adequate resources to young people. grit alone isn't going to cut it. you can sit there and tell me all you want, "hey man, pick yourself up by the bootstraps." but if i was born without any straps on my boots — how am i supposed to pick myself up? job training, mentoring, counseling ... teaching young people to learn from their mistakes instead of criminalizing them, and dragging them out of their classrooms like animals. how about this? i propose that we implement restorative justice in every high school in america. so we went out to test these ideas in the community of watts in la with 40 young people that had been pushed out of school. william was one of them. william was the kind of kid that had been given every label. he had dropped out, he was a gang member, a criminal. and when we met him he was very resistant. but i remember what ms. russ used to say. "hey, i'm here for you whenever you're ready." so over time — over time he began to open up. and i remember the day that he made the switch. we were in a large group and a young lady in our program was crying because she told us her powerful story of her dad being killed and then his body being shown in the newspaper the next day. and as she's crying, i don't know what to do, so i give her her space, and william had enough. he slammed his hands on the desk and he said, "hey, everybody! group hug! group hug!" this young lady's tears and pain turned into joy and laughter knowing that her community had her back, and william had now learned that he did have a purpose in life: to help to heal the souls of people in his own community. he told us his story. we refined his story to go from being the story of a victim to being the story of a survivor that has overcome adversity. we placed high value on it. william went on to finish high school, get his security guard certificate to become a security guard, and is now working at a local school district. ms. russ's mantra — her mantra was always, "when you teach to the heart, the mind will follow." the great writer khalil gibran says, "out of suffering have emerged the greatest souls. the massive characters are seared with scars." i believe that in this education revolution that we're talking about we need to invite the souls of the young people that we work with, and once they're able to refine — identify their grit, resilience and character that they've already developed — their academic performance will improve.let's believe in young people. let's provide them the right kinds of resources. i'll tell you what my teacher did for me. she believed in me so much that she tricked me into believing in myself.thank you. <title = "Math is the hidden secret to understanding the world">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'art', 'beauty', 'communication', 'education', 'math', 'music', 'nature', 'philosophy', 'universe', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Logician, mathematician, computer scientist">
hi. i want to talk about understanding, and the nature of understanding, and what the essence of understanding is, because understanding is something we aim for, everyone. we want to understand things. my claim is that understanding has to do with the ability to change your perspective. if you don't have that, you don't have understanding. so that is my claim.and i want to focus on mathematics. many of us think of mathematics as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, fractions, percent, geometry, algebra — all that stuff. but actually, i want to talk about the essence of mathematics as well. and my claim is that mathematics has to do with patterns.behind me, you see a beautiful pattern, and this pattern actually emerges just from drawing circles in a very particular way. so my day-to-day definition of mathematics that i use every day is the following: first of all, it's about finding patterns. and by "pattern," i mean a connection, a structure, some regularity, some rules that govern what we see. second of all, i think it is about representing these patterns with a language. we make up language if we don't have it, and in mathematics, this is essential. it's also about making assumptions and playing around with these assumptions and just seeing what happens. we're going to do that very soon. and finally, it's about doing cool stuff. mathematics enables us to do so many things.so let's have a look at these patterns. if you want to tie a tie knot, there are patterns. tie knots have names. and you can also do the mathematics of tie knots. this is a left-out, right-in, center-out and tie. this is a left-in, right-out, left-in, center-out and tie. this is a language we made up for the patterns of tie knots, and a half-windsor is all that. this is a mathematics book about tying shoelaces at the university level, because there are patterns in shoelaces. you can do it in so many different ways. we can analyze it. we can make up languages for it.and representations are all over mathematics. this is leibniz's notation from 1675. he invented a language for patterns in nature. when we throw something up in the air, it falls down. why? we're not sure, but we can represent this with mathematics in a pattern.this is also a pattern. this is also an invented language. can you guess for what? it is actually a notation system for dancing, for tap dancing. that enables him as a choreographer to do cool stuff, to do new things, because he has represented it.i want you to think about how amazing representing something actually is. here it says the word "mathematics." but actually, they're just dots, right? so how in the world can these dots represent the word? well, they do. they represent the word "mathematics," and these symbols also represent that word and this we can listen to. it sounds like this.(beeps)somehow these sounds represent the word and the concept. how does this happen? there's something amazing going on about representing stuff.so i want to talk about that magic that happens when we actually represent something. here you see just lines with different widths. they stand for numbers for a particular book. and i can actually recommend this book, it's a very nice book. just trust me.ok, so let's just do an experiment, just to play around with some straight lines. this is a straight line. let's make another one. so every time we move, we move one down and one across, and we draw a new straight line, right? we do this over and over and over, and we look for patterns. so this pattern emerges, and it's a rather nice pattern. it looks like a curve, right? just from drawing simple, straight lines.now i can change my perspective a little bit. i can rotate it. have a look at the curve. what does it look like? is it a part of a circle? it's actually not a part of a circle. so i have to continue my investigation and look for the true pattern. perhaps if i copy it and make some art? well, no. perhaps i should extend the lines like this, and look for the pattern there. let's make more lines. we do this. and then let's zoom out and change our perspective again. then we can actually see that what started out as just straight lines is actually a curve called a parabola. this is represented by a simple equation, and it's a beautiful pattern.so this is the stuff that we do. we find patterns, and we represent them. and i think this is a nice day-to-day definition. but today i want to go a little bit deeper, and think about what the nature of this is. what makes it possible? there's one thing that's a little bit deeper, and that has to do with the ability to change your perspective. and i claim that when you change your perspective, and if you take another point of view, you learn something new about what you are watching or looking at or hearing. and i think this is a really important thing that we do all the time.so let's just look at this simple equation, x + x = 2 • x. this is a very nice pattern, and it's true, because 5 + 5 = 2 • 5, etc. we've seen this over and over, and we represent it like this. but think about it: this is an equation. it says that something is equal to something else, and that's two different perspectives. one perspective is, it's a sum. it's something you plus together. on the other hand, it's a multiplication, and those are two different perspectives. and i would go as far as to say that every equation is like this, every mathematical equation where you use that equality sign is actually a metaphor. it's an analogy between two things. you're just viewing something and taking two different points of view, and you're expressing that in a language.have a look at this equation. this is one of the most beautiful equations. it simply says that, well, two things, they're both -1. this thing on the left-hand side is -1, and the other one is. and that, i think, is one of the essential parts of mathematics — you take different points of view.so let's just play around. let's take a number. we know four-thirds. we know what four-thirds is. it's 1.333, but we have to have those three dots, otherwise it's not exactly four-thirds. but this is only in base 10. you know, the number system, we use 10 digits. if we change that around and only use two digits, that's called the binary system. it's written like this. so we're now talking about the number. the number is four-thirds. we can write it like this, and we can change the base, change the number of digits, and we can write it differently.so these are all representations of the same number. we can even write it simply, like 1.3 or 1.6. it all depends on how many digits you have. or perhaps we just simplify and write it like this. i like this one, because this says four divided by three. and this number expresses a relation between two numbers. you have four on the one hand and three on the other. and you can visualize this in many ways. what i'm doing now is viewing that number from different perspectives. i'm playing around. i'm playing around with how we view something, and i'm doing it very deliberately. we can take a grid. if it's four across and three up, this line equals five, always. it has to be like this. this is a beautiful pattern. four and three and five. and this rectangle, which is 4 x 3, you've seen a lot of times. this is your average computer screen. 800 x 600 or 1,600 x 1,200 is a television or a computer screen.so these are all nice representations, but i want to go a little bit further and just play more with this number. here you see two circles. i'm going to rotate them like this. observe the upper-left one. it goes a little bit faster, right? you can see this. it actually goes exactly four-thirds as fast. that means that when it goes around four times, the other one goes around three times. now let's make two lines, and draw this dot where the lines meet. we get this dot dancing around. and this dot comes from that number. right? now we should trace it. let's trace it and see what happens. this is what mathematics is all about. it's about seeing what happens. and this emerges from four-thirds. i like to say that this is the image of four-thirds. it's much nicer — (cheers)thank you! this is not new. this has been known for a long time, but — but this is four-thirds.let's do another experiment. let's now take a sound, this sound: (beep)this is a perfect a, 440hz. let's multiply it by two. we get this sound. (beep)when we play them together, it sounds like this. this is an octave, right? we can do this game. we can play a sound, play the same a. we can multiply it by three-halves.(beep)this is what we call a perfect fifth.(beep)they sound really nice together. let's multiply this sound by four-thirds. (beep)what happens? you get this sound. (beep)this is the perfect fourth. if the first one is an a, this is a d. they sound like this together. (beeps)this is the sound of four-thirds. what i'm doing now, i'm changing my perspective. i'm just viewing a number from another perspective.i can even do this with rhythms, right? i can take a rhythm and play three beats at one time (drumbeats)in a period of time, and i can play another sound four times in that same space.(clanking sounds)sounds kind of boring, but listen to them together.(drumbeats and clanking sounds) hey! so. i can even make a little hi-hat.(drumbeats and cymbals)can you hear this? so, this is the sound of four-thirds. again, this is as a rhythm.(drumbeats and cowbell)and i can keep doing this and play games with this number. four-thirds is a really great number. i love four-thirds! truly — it's an undervalued number. so if you take a sphere and look at the volume of the sphere, it's actually four-thirds of some particular cylinder. so four-thirds is in the sphere. it's the volume of the sphere.ok, so why am i doing all this? well, i want to talk about what it means to understand something and what we mean by understanding something. that's my aim here. and my claim is that you understand something if you have the ability to view it from different perspectives. let's look at this letter. it's a beautiful r, right? how do you know that? well, as a matter of fact, you've seen a bunch of r's, and you've generalized and abstracted all of these and found a pattern. so you know that this is an r.so what i'm aiming for here is saying something about how understanding and changing your perspective are linked. and i'm a teacher and a lecturer, and i can actually use this to teach something, because when i give someone else another story, a metaphor, an analogy, if i tell a story from a different point of view, i enable understanding. i make understanding possible, because you have to generalize over everything you see and hear, and if i give you another perspective, that will become easier for you.let's do a simple example again. this is four and three. this is four triangles. so this is also four-thirds, in a way. let's just join them together. now we're going to play a game; we're going to fold it up into a three-dimensional structure. i love this. this is a square pyramid. and let's just take two of them and put them together. so this is what is called an octahedron. it's one of the five platonic solids. now we can quite literally change our perspective, because we can rotate it around all of the axes and view it from different perspectives. and i can change the axis, and then i can view it from another point of view, but it's the same thing, but it looks a little different. i can do it even one more time.every time i do this, something else appears, so i'm actually learning more about the object when i change my perspective. i can use this as a tool for creating understanding. i can take two of these and put them together like this and see what happens. and it looks a little bit like the octahedron. have a look at it if i spin it around like this. what happens? well, if you take two of these, join them together and spin it around, there's your octahedron again, a beautiful structure. if you lay it out flat on the floor, this is the octahedron. this is the graph structure of an octahedron. and i can continue doing this. you can draw three great circles around the octahedron, and you rotate around, so actually three great circles is related to the octahedron. and if i take a bicycle pump and just pump it up, you can see that this is also a little bit like the octahedron. do you see what i'm doing here? i am changing the perspective every time.so let's now take a step back — and that's actually a metaphor, stepping back — and have a look at what we're doing. i'm playing around with metaphors. i'm playing around with perspectives and analogies. i'm telling one story in different ways. i'm telling stories. i'm making a narrative; i'm making several narratives. and i think all of these things make understanding possible. i think this actually is the essence of understanding something. i truly believe this.so this thing about changing your perspective — it's absolutely fundamental for humans. let's play around with the earth. let's zoom into the ocean, have a look at the ocean. we can do this with anything. we can take the ocean and view it up close. we can look at the waves. we can go to the beach. we can view the ocean from another perspective. every time we do this, we learn a little bit more about the ocean. if we go to the shore, we can kind of smell it, right? we can hear the sound of the waves. we can feel salt on our tongues. so all of these are different perspectives. and this is the best one. we can go into the water. we can see the water from the inside. and you know what? this is absolutely essential in mathematics and computer science. if you're able to view a structure from the inside, then you really learn something about it. that's somehow the essence of something.so when we do this, and we've taken this journey into the ocean, we use our imagination. and i think this is one level deeper, and it's actually a requirement for changing your perspective. we can do a little game. you can imagine that you're sitting there. you can imagine that you're up here, and that you're sitting here. you can view yourselves from the outside. that's really a strange thing. you're changing your perspective. you're using your imagination, and you're viewing yourself from the outside. that requires imagination.mathematics and computer science are the most imaginative art forms ever. and this thing about changing perspectives should sound a little bit familiar to you, because we do it every day. and then it's called empathy. when i view the world from your perspective, i have empathy with you. if i really, truly understand what the world looks like from your perspective, i am empathetic. that requires imagination. and that is how we obtain understanding. and this is all over mathematics and this is all over computer science, and there's a really deep connection between empathy and these sciences.so my conclusion is the following: understanding something really deeply has to do with the ability to change your perspective. so my advice to you is: try to change your perspective. you can study mathematics. it's a wonderful way to train your brain. changing your perspective makes your mind more flexible. it makes you open to new things, and it makes you able to understand things. and to use yet another metaphor: have a mind like water. that's nice.thank you. <title = "A political party for women's equality">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'activism', 'feminism', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'inequality', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'politics', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Broadcast personality, politician, author">
i am so excited to be here. everything in america is so much bigger than in europe. look at me — i am huge! it's fantastic! and ted talks — ted talks are where everybody has great ideas. so the question is: where do those great ideas come from? well, it's a little bit of debate, but it's generally reckoned that the average person — that's me — has about 50,000 thoughts a day. which is a lot, until you realize that 95 percent of them are the same ones you had the day before. and a lot of mine are really boring, ok? i think things like, "oh! i know — i must clean the floor. oh! i forgot to walk the dog." my most popular: "don't eat that cookie." so, 95 percent repetition. that leaves us with just a five percent window of opportunity each day to actually think something new. and some of my new thoughts are useless. the other day i was watching some sports on television, and i was trying to decide why i just don't engage with it. some of it i find curious. this is odd. do you think it would be worth being that flexible just to be able to see your heel at that angle? and here's the thing: i'm never going to be able to relate to that, because i'm never going to be able to do it, ok? well, not twice, anyway. but i'll tell you the truth. the truth is i have never been any good at sport, ok? i've reached that wonderful age when all my friends say, "oh, i wish i was as fit as i was when i was 18." and i always feel rather smug then. i'm exactly as fit as i was when i — i couldn't run then. i'm certainly not going to do it now. so then i had my new idea: why not engage people like me in sport? i think what the world needs now is the olympics for people with zero athletic ability. oh, it would be so much more fun. we'd have three basic rules, ok? obviously no drugs; no corruption, no skills. it would be — no, it's a terrible idea. and i also know why i don't engage with sport when i watch it on television. it's because probably 97 percent of it is about men running and men kicking things, men trying to look neatly packaged in lycra. there is — not always successfully. there is — there is so little female sport on television, that a young woman watching might be forgiven for thinking, and how can i put this nicely, that the male member is the very lever you need to get yourself off the couch and onto a sports ground. the inequalities in sport are breathtaking.so this is what happens to me: i have a brand new idea, and immediately i come back to an old one. the fact is, there is not now, nor has there ever been in the whole of history, a single country in the world where women have equality with men. not one. 196 countries, it hasn't happened in the whole of evolution.so, here is a picture of evolution. we women are not even in it! it's a wonder men have been able to evolve quite so brilliantly. so — it bugs me, and i know i should do something about it. but i'm busy, ok? i have a full-on career, i've got three kids, i've got an elderly mom. in fact, if i'm honest with you, one of the reasons i came out here is because ted talks said i could have 15 minutes to myself, and i never have that much time — so i'm busy. and anyway, i already had a go at changing the world. here's the thing, ok? everybody has inside themselves what i call an "activation button." it's the button that gets pressed when you think, "i must do something about this." it gets pressed for all sorts of reasons. maybe you face some kind of inequality, or you've come across an injustice of some kind, sometimes an illness strikes, or you're born in some way disadvantaged, or perhaps underprivileged. so i was born gay, ok? i've always known, i don't think my family were the least bit surprised. here is a picture of me aged four. i look cute, but inside i genuinely believed that i looked like clint eastwood. so my activation button was pressed when i had my kids — three wonderful kids, born to my then-partner. now here's the thing: i work on television in britain. by the time they were born, i was already hosting my own shows and working in the public eye. i love what i do, but i love my kids more. and i didn't want them to grow up with a secret. 1994, when my son, my youngest was born, there was not, as far as i was aware, a single out, gay woman in british public life. i don't think secrets are a good thing. i think they are a cancer of the soul. so i decided to come out.everybody warned me that i would never work again, but i decided it was absolutely worth the risk. well, it was hell. in britain, we have a particularly vicious section of the right-wing press, and they went nuts. and their hatred stirred up the less stable elements of society, and we got death threats — enough death threats that i had to take the kids into hiding, and we had to have police protection. and i promise you there were many moments in the still of the night when i was terrified by what i had done.eventually the dust settled. against all expectation i carried on working, and my kids were and continue to be absolutely fantastic. i remember when my son was six, he had a friend over to play. they were in the next room; i could hear them chatting. the friend said to my son, "what's it like having two mums?" i was a little anxious to hear, so i leant in to hear and my son said, "it's fantastic, because if one of them's sick, you've still got another one to cook for you." so my activation button for gay equality was pressed, and along with many, many others, i campaigned for years for gay rights, and in particular, the right to marry the person that i love. in the end, we succeeded. and in 2014, on the day that the law was changed, i married my wife, who i love very much, indeed. we didn't do it in a quiet way — we did it on the stage at the royal festival hall in london. it was a great event. the hall seats two-and-a-half thousand people. we invited 150 family and friends, then i let it be known to the public: anybody who wanted to come and celebrate, please come and join us. it would be free to anybody who wanted to come. two-and-half thousand people turned up. every kind of person you can imagine: gays, straights, rabbis, nuns, married people, black, white — the whole of humanity was there. and i remember standing on that stage thinking, "how fantastic. job done. love triumphs. law changed." and i — and i genuinely thought my activation days were over, ok? so every year in that same hall, i host a fantastic concert to celebrate international women's day. we gather the world's only all-female orchestra, we play fantastic music by forgotten or overlooked women composers, we have amazing conductors — it's marin alsop there from baltimore conducting, petula clark singing — and i give a lecture on women's history. i love to gather inspirational stories from the past and pass them on. too often, i think history's what i call the mount rushmore model. it looks majestic, but the women have been entirely left out of it.and i was giving a talk in 2015 about the suffragettes — i'm sure you know those magnificent women who fought so hard for the right for women in britain to vote. and their slogan was: "deeds, not words." and boy, they succeeded, because women did indeed get the vote in 1928. so i'm giving this talk about this, and as i'm talking, what i realized is: this was not a history lecture i was giving; this was not something where the job was done. this was something where there was so much left to do. nowhere in the world, for example, do women have equal representation in positions of power.ok, let's take a very quick look at the top 100 companies in the london stock exchange in 2016. top 100 companies: how many women running them? seven. ok. seven. that's all right, i suppose. until you realize that 17 are run by men called "john." there are more men called john running ftse 100 companies — than there are women. there are 14 run by men called "dave." now, i'm sure dave and john are doing a bang-up job. ok. why does it matter? well, it's that pesky business of the gender pay gap. nowhere in the world do women earn the same as men. and that is never going to change unless we have more women at the top in the boardroom. we have plenty of laws; the equal pay act in britain was passed in 1975. nevertheless, there are still many, many women who, from early november until the end of the year, by comparison to their male colleagues, are effectively working for free. in fact, the world economic forum estimates that women will finally get equal pay in ... 2133! yay! that's a terrible figure. and here's the thing: the day before i came out to give my talk, the world economic forum revised it. so that's good, because that's a terrible — 2133. do you know what they revised it to? 2186. yeah, another 53 years, ok? we are not going to get equal pay in my grandchildren's grandchildren's lives under the current system.and i have waited long enough. i've waited long enough in my own business. in 2016 i became the very first woman on british television to host a prime-time panel show. isn't that great? wonderful, i'm thrilled. but — but 2016! the first! television's been around for 80 years! it may be television's not so important, but it's kind of symptomatic, isn't it? 2016, the un were looking for a brand new ambassador to represent women's empowerment and gender equality, and who did they choose? wonder woman. yes, they chose a cartoon, ok? because no woman was up to the job.the representation of women in positions of power is shockingly low. it's true in congress, and it's certainly true in the british parliament. in 2015, the number of men elected to the parliament that year was greater than the total number of women who have ever been members of parliament. and why does it matter? here's the thing: if they're not at the table — literally, in britain, at that table helping to make the laws — do not be surprised if the female perspective is overlooked.it's a great role model for young people to see a woman in charge. in 2016, britain got its second female prime minister; theresa may came to power. the day she came to power she was challenged: just do one thing. do one thing in the first 100 days that you're in office to try and improve lives for women in britain. and what did she do? nothing. nothing. because she's much too busy cleaning up the mess the boys made. even having a female leader, they always find something better to do than to sort out the pesky issue of inequality.so i keep talking about equality like it matters. does it? well, let's take a very quick look at the stem industries, ok? so science, technology, engineering and mathematics. pretty much important in every single aspect of our daily lives. there is the thickest and most incredibly well-documented glass ceiling in the stem industries. what if the cure for cancer or the answer the global warming lies in the head of a young female scientist who fails to progress?so i thought all these things, and i knew i had to do "deeds, not words." and i spoke to my wonderful friend, brilliant journalist catherine mayer in britain, and we rather foolishly — and i suspect there was wine involved — we decided to found a brand new political party. because here's the critical thing: the one place women and men are absolutely equal is at the ballot box. we had no idea what we were doing, we didn't know how complicated it was to start a political party. i thought, "it can't be that difficult, men have been doing it for years." so we started by calling it "the women's equality party." and straightaway people said to me, "why did you call it that?" i said, "i don't know, i just thought we'd be clear." i didn't want what we were doing to be a secret, you know? i just — some people said, "you can't call it that! it's much too feminist!" ooh! scary word! ahh! i can't tell you how many times i've heard somebody say, "i'm not a feminist, but ..." and i always think if there's a "but" in the sentence, it can't all be roses in the garden. and then i started getting asked the hilarious question, "are you all going to burn your bras?" yes! because bras are famously made of flammable material. that's why all women spark when they walk. here's quick history sidebar for you: no woman ever burnt her bra in the '60s. it's a story made up by a journalist. thank goodness journalism has improved since then. so — i announced what we were going to do in a broadcast interview, and straightaway, the emails started coming. first hundreds, then thousands and thousands, from every age group: from the very young to women in their '90s, to hundreds of wonderful men. people wrote and said, "please, can i help? please, can i visit you at party headquarters?" we didn't have a headquarters — we didn't have a party! we didn't have anything. all we had was a wonderful, tight group of fabulous friends trying to answer emails pretty much 24-7 in our pajamas.we were all busy. many of us had careers, many of us had children, but we did what women do, and we shared the work. and almost instantly, we agreed on certain fundamental things. first thing: we want to be the only political party in the world whose main aim was to no longer need to exist. that's a fantastic idea. we wanted to be the only political party with no particular political leaning. we wanted people from the left, from the right, from the middle, every age group. because the whole point was to work with a simple agenda: let's get equality in every aspect of our lives, and when we're finished, let's go home and get the other chores done. and we wanted to change how politics is conducted. i don't know if you have this, but in britain we have two major political parties. they're the dinosaurs of politics. and how they speak to each other is shameful and poisonous. i'm sure you've never had that kind of name-calling — and lying here. wouldn't it be great if just one politician said, "do you know, my opponent has a point. let's see if we can't work together and get the job done." and let's get more women into politics, ok? let's immediately get more women into politics by being the only political party to offer free childcare to our candidates, so they can get out of the house and start campaigning. within 10 months, we had more than 70 branches of our party across the uk. we stood candidates for election in london, scotland and wales in may 2016. one in 20 people voted for our candidate for london mayor. and when the men in the race saw how many votes we were attracting, wonder of wonders, they began to talk about the need to tackle gender equality. you know, i've been promised change since i was a child. it was always coming: women were going to stand shoulder to shoulder with men. all i got were empty promises and disappointment — enough disappointment to found a political party. but here is my new idea for today — this is my five percent, ok? and this one is really good. the fact is, this is not enough. it is not enough to found one political party for equality in a single country. what we need is a seismic change in the global political landscape. and the wonderful thing about the model we have created is that it would work anywhere. it would work in america, it would work in australia, it would work in india. it's like we've made the perfect recipe: anybody can cook it, and it's good for everybody. and we want to give it away. if you want to know what we did, we're giving it away. can you imagine if we could mobilize millions of women across the world to say, "that's enough!" to the traditional battles of politics? to say, "stop the bickering, let's get the work done." we could literally change the world. and i want that. i want ... i want that for our daughters, and i want it for our sons. because the fact is: equality is better for everyone.come on people, let's activate! let's change the world! i know we can do it, and it wants doing! <title = "What will humans look like in 100 years?">
<tags = "['DNA', 'Human body', 'aging', 'bacteria', 'biology', 'biotech', 'brain', 'chemistry', 'collaboration', 'engineering', 'evolution', 'future', 'genetics', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'invention', 'life', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'physiology', 'science', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Futurist">
here's a question that matters.[is it ethical to evolve the human body?]because we're beginning to get all the tools together to evolve ourselves. and we can evolve bacteria and we can evolve plants and we can evolve animals, and we're now reaching a point where we really have to ask, is it really ethical and do we want to evolve human beings? and as you're thinking about that, let me talk about that in the context of prosthetics, prosthetics past, present, future.so this is the iron hand that belonged to one of the german counts. loved to fight, lost his arm in one of these battles. no problem, he just made a suit of armor, put it on, perfect prosthetic. that's where the concept of ruling with an iron fist comes from.and of course these prosthetics have been getting more and more useful, more and more modern. you can hold soft-boiled eggs. you can have all types of controls, and as you're thinking about that, there are wonderful people like hugh herr who have been building absolutely extraordinary prosthetics. so the wonderful aimee mullins will go out and say, how tall do i want to be tonight? or hugh will say what type of cliff do i want to climb? or does somebody want to run a marathon, or does somebody want to ballroom dance? and as you adapt these things, the interesting thing about prosthetics is they've been coming inside the body. so these external prosthetics have now become artificial knees. they've become artificial hips. and then they've evolved further to become not just nice to have but essential to have.so when you're talking about a heart pacemaker as a prosthetic, you're talking about something that isn't just, "i'm missing my leg," it's, "if i don't have this, i can die." and at that point, a prosthetic becomes a symbiotic relationship with the human body.and four of the smartest people that i've ever met — ed boyden, hugh herr, joe jacobson, bob lander — are working on a center for extreme bionics. and the interesting thing of what you're seeing here is these prosthetics now get integrated into the bone. they get integrated into the skin. they get integrated into the muscle. and one of the other sides of ed is he's been thinking about how to connect the brain using light or other mechanisms directly to things like these prosthetics. and if you can do that, then you can begin changing fundamental aspects of humanity. so how quickly you react to something depends on the diameter of a nerve. and of course, if you have nerves that are external or prosthetic, say with light or liquid metal, then you can increase that diameter and you could even increase it theoretically to the point where, as long as you could see the muzzle flash, you could step out of the way of a bullet. those are the order of magnitude of changes you're talking about.this is a fourth sort of level of prosthetics. these are phonak hearing aids, and the reason why these are so interesting is because they cross the threshold from where prosthetics are something for somebody who is "disabled" and they become something that somebody who is "normal" might want to actually have, because what this prosthetic does, which is really interesting, is not only does it help you hear, you can focus your hearing, so it can hear the conversation going on over there. you can have superhearing. you can have hearing in 360 degrees. you can have white noise. you can record, and oh, by the way, they also put a phone into this. so this functions as your hearing aid and also as your phone. and at that point, somebody might actually want to have a prosthetic voluntarily.all of these thousands of loosely connected little pieces are coming together, and it's about time we ask the question, how do we want to evolve human beings over the next century or two? and for that we turn to a great philosopher who was a very smart man despite being a yankee fan. and yogi berra used to say, of course, that it's very tough to make predictions, especially about the future. so instead of making a prediction about the future to begin with, let's take what's happening in the present with people like tony atala, who is redesigning 30-some-odd organs. and maybe the ultimate prosthetic isn't having something external, titanium. maybe the ultimate prosthetic is take your own gene code, remake your own body parts, because that's a whole lot more effective than any kind of a prosthetic. but while you're at it, then you can take the work of craig venter and ham smith. and one of the things that we've been doing is trying to figure out how to reprogram cells. and if you can reprogram a cell, then you can change the cells in those organs. so if you can change the cells in those organs, maybe you make those organs more radiation-resistant. maybe you make them absorb more oxygen. maybe you make them more efficient to filter out stuff that you don't want in your body.and over the last few weeks, george church has been in the news a lot because he's been talking about taking one of these programmable cells and inserting an entire human genome into that cell. and once you can insert an entire human genome into a cell, then you begin to ask the question, would you want to enhance any of that genome? do you want to enhance a human body? how would you want to enhance a human body? where is it ethical to enhance a human body and where is it not ethical to enhance a human body? and all of a sudden, what we're doing is we've got this multidimensional chess board where we can change human genetics by using viruses to attack things like aids, or we can change the gene code through gene therapy to do away with some hereditary diseases, or we can change the environment, and change the expression of those genes in the epigenome and pass that on to the next generations. and all of a sudden, it's not just one little bit, it's all these stacked little bits that allow you to take little portions of it until all the portions coming together lead you to something that's very different.and a lot of people are very scared by this stuff. and it does sound scary, and there are risks to this stuff. so why in the world would you ever want to do this stuff? why would we really want to alter the human body in a fundamental way?the answer lies in part with lord rees, astronomer royal of great britain. and one of his favorite sayings is the universe is 100 percent malevolent. so what does that mean? it means if you take any one of your bodies at random, drop it anywhere in the universe, drop it in space, you die. drop it on the sun, you die. drop it on the surface of mercury, you die. drop it near a supernova, you die. but fortunately, it's only about 80 percent effective.so as a great physicist once said, there's these little upstream eddies of biology that create order in this rapid torrent of entropy. so as the universe dissipates energy, there's these upstream eddies that create biological order. now, the problem with eddies is, they tend to disappear. they shift. they move in rivers. and because of that, when an eddy shifts, when the earth becomes a snowball, when the earth becomes very hot, when the earth gets hit by an asteroid, when you have supervolcanoes, when you have solar flares, when you have potentially extinction-level events like the next election — then all of a sudden, you can have periodic extinctions. and by the way, that's happened five times on earth, and therefore it is very likely that the human species on earth is going to go extinct someday. not next week, not next month, maybe in november, but maybe 10,000 years after that. as you're thinking of the consequence of that, if you believe that extinctions are common and natural and normal and occur periodically, it becomes a moral imperative to diversify our species.and it becomes a moral imperative because it's going to be really hard to live on mars if we don't fundamentally modify the human body. right? you go from one cell, mom and dad coming together to make one cell, in a cascade to 10 trillion cells. we don't know, if you change the gravity substantially, if the same thing will happen to create your body. we do know that if you expose our bodies as they currently are to a lot of radiation, we will die. so as you're thinking of that, you have to really redesign things just to get to mars. forget about the moons of neptune or jupiter.and to borrow from nikolai kardashev, let's think about life in a series of scales. so life one civilization is a civilization that begins to alter his or her looks. and we've been doing that for thousands of years. you've got tummy tucks and you've got this and you've got that. you alter your looks, and i'm told that not all of those alterations take place for medical reasons. seems odd.a life two civilization is a different civilization. a life two civilization alters fundamental aspects of the body. so you put human growth hormone in, the person grows taller, or you put x in and the person gets fatter or loses metabolism or does a whole series of things, but you're altering the functions in a fundamental way.to become an intrasolar civilization, we're going to have to create a life three civilization, and that looks very different from what we've got here. maybe you splice in deinococcus radiodurans so that the cells can resplice after a lot of exposure to radiation. maybe you breathe by having oxygen flow through your blood instead of through your lungs. but you're talking about really radical redesigns, and one of the interesting things that's happened in the last decade is we've discovered a whole lot of planets out there. and some of them may be earth-like. the problem is, if we ever want to get to these planets, the fastest human objects — juno and voyager and the rest of this stuff — take tens of thousands of years to get from here to the nearest solar system. so if you want to start exploring beaches somewhere else, or you want to see two-sun sunsets, then you're talking about something that is very different, because you have to change the timescale and the body of humans in ways which may be absolutely unrecognizable. and that's a life four civilization.now, we can't even begin to imagine what that might look like, but we're beginning to get glimpses of instruments that might take us even that far. and let me give you two examples.so this is the wonderful floyd romesberg, and one of the things that floyd's been doing is he's been playing with the basic chemistry of life. so all life on this planet is made in atcgs, the four letters of dna. all bacteria, all plants, all animals, all humans, all cows, everything else. and what floyd did is he changed out two of those base pairs, so it's atxy. and that means that you now have a parallel system to make life, to make babies, to reproduce, to evolve, that doesn't mate with most things on earth or in fact maybe with nothing on earth. maybe you make plants that are immune to all bacteria. maybe you make plants that are immune to all viruses. but why is that so interesting? it means that we are not a unique solution. it means you can create alternate chemistries to us that could be chemistries adaptable to a very different planet that could create life and heredity.the second experiment, or the other implication of this experiment, is that all of you, all life is based on 20 amino acids. if you don't substitute two amino acids, if you don't say atxy, if you say atcg + xy, then you go from 20 building blocks to 172, and all of a sudden you've got 172 building blocks of amino acids to build life-forms in very different shapes.the second experiment to think about is a really weird experiment that's been taking place in china. so this guy has been transplanting hundreds of mouse heads. right? and why is that an interesting experiment? well, think of the first heart transplants. one of the things they used to do is they used to bring in the wife or the daughter of the donor so the donee could tell the doctors, "do you recognize this person? do you love this person? do you feel anything for this person?" we laugh about that today. we laugh because we know the heart is a muscle, but for hundreds of thousands of years, or tens of thousands of years, "i gave her my heart. she took my heart. she broke my heart." we thought this was emotion and we thought maybe emotions were transplanted with the heart. nope.so how about the brain? two possible outcomes to this experiment. if you can get a mouse that is functional, then you can see, is the new brain a blank slate? and boy, does that have implications. second option: the new mouse recognizes minnie mouse. the new mouse remembers what it's afraid of, remembers how to navigate the maze, and if that is true, then you can transplant memory and consciousness. and then the really interesting question is, if you can transplant this, is the only input-output mechanism this down here? or could you transplant that consciousness into something that would be very different, that would last in space, that would last tens of thousands of years, that would be a completely redesigned body that could hold consciousness for a long, long period of time?and let's come back to the first question: why would you ever want to do that? well, i'll tell you why. because this is the ultimate selfie. this is taken from six billion miles away, and that's earth. and that's all of us. and if that little thing goes, all of humanity goes. and the reason you want to alter the human body is because you eventually want a picture that says, that's us, and that's us, and that's us, because that's the way humanity survives long-term extinction. and that's the reason why it turns out it's actually unethical not to evolve the human body even though it can be scary, even though it can be challenging, but it's what's going to allow us to explore, live and get to places we can't even dream of today, but which our great-great-great-great- grandchildren might someday.thank you very much. <title = "How to speak up for yourself">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'communication', 'decision-making', 'empathy', 'identity', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'personality', 'relationships', 'society', 'women in business', 'work']">
<occupation = "Social psychologist">
speaking up is hard to do. i understood the true meaning of this phrase exactly one month ago, when my wife and i became new parents. it was an amazing moment. it was exhilarating and elating, but it was also scary and terrifying. and it got particularly terrifying when we got home from the hospital, and we were unsure whether our little baby boy was getting enough nutrients from breastfeeding. and we wanted to call our pediatrician, but we also didn't want to make a bad first impression or come across as a crazy, neurotic parent. so we worried. and we waited. when we got to the doctor's office the next day, she immediately gave him formula because he was pretty dehydrated. our son is fine now, and our doctor has reassured us we can always contact her. but in that moment, i should've spoken up, but i didn't.but sometimes we speak up when we shouldn't, and i learned that over 10 years ago when i let my twin brother down. my twin brother is a documentary filmmaker, and for one of his first films, he got an offer from a distribution company. he was excited, and he was inclined to accept the offer. but as a negotiations researcher, i insisted he make a counteroffer, and i helped him craft the perfect one. and it was perfect — it was perfectly insulting. the company was so offended, they literally withdrew the offer and my brother was left with nothing.and i've asked people all over the world about this dilemma of speaking up: when they can assert themselves, when they can push their interests, when they can express an opinion, when they can make an ambitious ask.and the range of stories are varied and diverse, but they also make up a universal tapestry. can i correct my boss when they make a mistake? can i confront my coworker who keeps stepping on my toes? can i challenge my friend's insensitive joke? can i tell the person i love the most my deepest insecurities?and through these experiences, i've come to recognize that each of us have something called a range of acceptable behavior. now, sometimes we're too strong; we push ourselves too much. that's what happened with my brother. even making an offer was outside his range of acceptable behavior. but sometimes we're too weak. that's what happened with my wife and i. and this range of acceptable behaviors — when we stay within our range, we're rewarded. when we step outside that range, we get punished in a variety of ways. we get dismissed or demeaned or even ostracized. or we lose that raise or that promotion or that deal.now, the first thing we need to know is: what is my range? but the key thing is, our range isn't fixed; it's actually pretty dynamic. it expands and it narrows based on the context. and there's one thing that determines that range more than anything else, and that's your power. your power determines your range. what is power? power comes in lots of forms. in negotiations, it comes in the form of alternatives. so my brother had no alternatives; he lacked power. the company had lots of alternatives; they had power. sometimes it's being new to a country, like an immigrant, or new to an organization or new to an experience, like my wife and i as new parents. sometimes it's at work, where someone's the boss and someone's the subordinate. sometimes it's in relationships, where one person's more invested than the other person.and the key thing is that when we have lots of power, our range is very wide. we have a lot of leeway in how to behave. but when we lack power, our range narrows. we have very little leeway. the problem is that when our range narrows, that produces something called the low-power double bind. the low-power double bind happens when, if we don't speak up, we go unnoticed, but if we do speak up, we get punished.now, many of you have heard the phrase the "double bind" and connected it with one thing, and that's gender. the gender double bind is women who don't speak up go unnoticed, and women who do speak up get punished. and the key thing is that women have the same need as men to speak up, but they have barriers to doing so. but what my research has shown over the last two decades is that what looks like a gender difference is not really a gender double bind, it's a really a low-power double bind. and what looks like a gender difference are really often just power differences in disguise. oftentimes we see a difference between a man and a woman or men and women, and think, "biological cause. there's something fundamentally different about the sexes." but in study after study, i've found that a better explanation for many sex differences is really power. and so it's the low-power double bind. and the low-power double bind means that we have a narrow range, and we lack power. we have a narrow range, and our double bind is very large.so we need to find ways to expand our range. and over the last couple decades, my colleagues and i have found two things really matter. the first: you seem powerful in your own eyes. the second: you seem powerful in the eyes of others. when i feel powerful, i feel confident, not fearful; i expand my own range. when other people see me as powerful, they grant me a wider range. so we need tools to expand our range of acceptable behavior. and i'm going to give you a set of tools today. speaking up is risky, but these tools will lower your risk of speaking up.the first tool i'm going to give you got discovered in negotiations in an important finding. on average, women make less ambitious offers and get worse outcomes than men at the bargaining table. but hannah riley bowles and emily amanatullah have discovered there's one situation where women get the same outcomes as men and are just as ambitious. that's when they advocate for others. when they advocate for others, they discover their own range and expand it in their own mind. they become more assertive. this is sometimes called "the mama bear effect." like a mama bear defending her cubs, when we advocate for others, we can discover our own voice.but sometimes, we have to advocate for ourselves. how do we do that? one of the most important tools we have to advocate for ourselves is something called perspective-taking. and perspective-taking is really simple: it's simply looking at the world through the eyes of another person. it's one of the most important tools we have to expand our range. when i take your perspective, and i think about what you really want, you're more likely to give me what i really want.but here's the problem: perspective-taking is hard to do. so let's do a little experiment. i want you all to hold your hand just like this: your finger — put it up. and i want you to draw a capital letter e on your forehead as quickly as possible. ok, it turns out that we can draw this e in one of two ways, and this was originally designed as a test of perspective-taking. i'm going to show you two pictures of someone with an e on their forehead — my former student, erika hall. and you can see over here, that's the correct e. i drew the e so it looks like an e to another person. that's the perspective-taking e because it looks like an e from someone else's vantage point. but this e over here is the self-focused e. we often get self-focused. and we particularly get self-focused in a crisis.i want to tell you about a particular crisis. a man walks into a bank in watsonville, california. and he says, "give me $2,000, or i'm blowing the whole bank up with a bomb." now, the bank manager didn't give him the money. she took a step back. she took his perspective, and she noticed something really important. he asked for a specific amount of money.so she said, "why did you ask for $2,000?"and he said, "my friend is going to be evicted unless i get him $2,000 immediately."and she said, "oh! you don't want to rob the bank — you want to take out a loan." "why don't you come back to my office, and we can have you fill out the paperwork." now, her quick perspective-taking defused a volatile situation. so when we take someone's perspective, it allows us to be ambitious and assertive, but still be likable.here's another way to be assertive but still be likable, and that is to signal flexibility. now, imagine you're a car salesperson, and you want to sell someone a car. you're going to more likely make the sale if you give them two options. let's say option a: $24,000 for this car and a five-year warranty. or option b: $23,000 and a three-year warranty. my research shows that when you give people a choice among options, it lowers their defenses, and they're more likely to accept your offer.and this doesn't just work with salespeople; it works with parents. when my niece was four, she resisted getting dressed and rejected everything. but then my sister-in-law had a brilliant idea. what if i gave my daughter a choice? this shirt or that shirt? ok, that shirt. this pant or that pant? ok, that pant. and it worked brilliantly. she got dressed quickly and without resistance.when i've asked the question around the world when people feel comfortable speaking up, the number one answer is: "when i have social support in my audience; when i have allies." so we want to get allies on our side. how do we do that? well, one of the ways is be a mama bear. when we advocate for others, we expand our range in our own eyes and the eyes of others, but we also earn strong allies.another way we can earn strong allies, especially in high places, is by asking other people for advice. when we ask others for advice, they like us because we flatter them, and we're expressing humility. and this really works to solve another double bind. and that's the self-promotion double bind. the self-promotion double bind is that if we don't advertise our accomplishments, no one notices. and if we do, we're not likable.but if we ask for advice about one of our accomplishments, we are able to be competent in their eyes but also be likeable. and this is so powerful it even works when you see it coming. there have been multiple times in life when i have been forewarned that a low-power person has been given the advice to come ask me for advice. i want you to notice three things about this: first, i knew they were going to come ask me for advice. two, i've actually done research on the strategic benefits of asking for advice. and three, it still worked! i took their perspective, i became more invested in their cause, i became more committed to them because they asked for advice.now, another time we feel more confident speaking up is when we have expertise. expertise gives us credibility. when we have high power, we already have credibility. we only need good evidence. when we lack power, we don't have the credibility. we need excellent evidence.and one of the ways we can come across as an expert is by tapping into our passion. i want everyone in the next few days to go up to friend of theirs and just say to them, "i want you to describe a passion of yours to me." i've had people do this all over the world and i asked them, "what did you notice about the other person when they described their passion?" and the answers are always the same. "their eyes lit up and got big." "they smiled a big beaming smile." "they used their hands all over — i had to duck because their hands were coming at me." "they talk quickly with a little higher pitch." "they leaned in as if telling me a secret."and then i said to them, "what happened to you as you listened to their passion?"they said, "my eyes lit up. i smiled. i leaned in."when we tap into our passion, we give ourselves the courage, in our own eyes, to speak up, but we also get the permission from others to speak up. tapping into our passion even works when we come across as too weak. both men and women get punished at work when they shed tears. but lizzie wolf has shown that when we frame our strong emotions as passion, the condemnation of our crying disappears for both men and women.i want to end with a few words from my late father that he spoke at my twin brother's wedding. here's a picture of us. my dad was a psychologist like me, but his real love and his real passion was cinema, like my brother. and so he wrote a speech for my brother's wedding about the roles we play in the human comedy.and he said, "the lighter your touch, the better you become at improving and enriching your performance. those who embrace their roles and work to improve their performance grow, change and expand the self. play it well, and your days will be mostly joyful."what my dad was saying is that we've all been assigned ranges and roles in this world. but he was also saying the essence of this talk: those roles and ranges are constantly expanding and evolving.so when a scene calls for it, be a ferocious mama bear and a humble advice seeker. have excellent evidence and strong allies. be a passionate perspective taker. and if you use those tools — and each and every one of you can use these tools — you will expand your range of acceptable behavior, and your days will be mostly joyful.thank you. <title = "We need nuclear power to solve climate change">
<tags = "['alternative energy', 'choice', 'climate change', 'engineering', 'global issues', 'innovation', 'nuclear energy', 'pollution', 'potential', 'resources', 'science', 'society']">
<occupation = "Energy scholar">
it's easy to forget that last night, one billion people went to sleep without access to electricity. one billion people. two and a half billion people did not have access to clean cooking fuels or clean heating fuels. those are the problems in the developing world. and it's easy for us not to be empathetic with those people who seem so distanced from us.but even in our own world, the developed world, we see the tension of stagnant economies impacting the lives of people around us. we see it in whole pieces of the economy, where the people involved have lost hope about the future and despair about the present. we see that in the brexit vote. we see that in the sanders/trump campaigns in my own country. but even in countries as recently turning the corner towards being in the developed world, in china, we see the difficulty that president xi has as he begins to un-employ so many people in his coal and mining industries who see no future for themselves. as we as a society figure out how to manage the problems of the developed world and the problems of the developing world, we have to look at how we move forward and manage the environmental impact of those decisions.we've been working on this problem for 25 years, since rio, the kyoto protocols. our most recent move is the paris treaty, and the resulting climate agreements that are being ratified by nations around the world. i think we can be very hopeful that those agreements, which are bottom-up agreements, where nations have said what they think they can do, are genuine and forthcoming for the vast majority of the parties. the unfortunate thing is that now, as we look at the independent analyses of what those climate treaties are liable to yield, the magnitude of the problem before us becomes clear.this is the united states energy information agency's assessment of what will happen if the countries implement the climate commitments that they've made in paris between now and 2040. it shows basically co2 emissions around the world over the next 30 years. there are three things that you need to look at and appreciate.one, co2 emissions are expected to continue to grow for the next 30 years. in order to control climate, co2 emissions have to literally go to zero because it's the cumulative emissions that drive heating on the planet. this should tell you that we are losing the race to fossil fuels.the second thing you should notice is that the bulk of the growth comes from the developing countries, from china, from india, from the rest of the world, which includes south africa and indonesia and brazil, as most of these countries move their people into the lower range of lifestyles that we literally take for granted in the developed world.the final thing that you should notice is that each year, about 10 gigatons of carbon are getting added to the planet's atmosphere, and then diffusing into the ocean and into the land. that's on top of the 550 gigatons that are in place today. at the end of 30 years, we will have put 850 gigatons of carbon into the air, and that probably goes a long way towards locking in a 2-4 degree c increase in global mean surface temperatures, locking in ocean acidification and locking in sea level rise.now, this is a projection made by men by the actions of society, and it's ours to change, not to accept. but the magnitude of the problem is something we need to appreciate.different nations make different energy choices. it's a function of their natural resources. it's a function of their climate. it's a function of the development path that they've followed as a society. it's a function of where on the surface of the planet they are. are they where it's dark a lot of the time, or are they at the mid-latitudes? many, many, many things go into the choices of countries, and they each make a different choice.the overwhelming thing that we need to appreciate is the choice that china has made. china has made the choice, and will make the choice, to run on coal. the united states has an alternative. it can run on natural gas as a result of the inventions of fracking and shale gas, which we have here. they provide an alternative. the oecd europe has a choice. it has renewables that it can afford to deploy in germany because it's rich enough to afford to do it. the french and the british show interest in nuclear power. eastern europe, still very heavily committed to natural gas and to coal, and with natural gas that comes from russia, with all of its entanglements. china has many fewer choices and a much harder row to hoe.if you look at china, and you ask yourself why has coal been important to it, you have to remember what china's done. china brought people to power, not power to people. it didn't do rural electrification. it urbanized. it urbanized by taking low-cost labor and low-cost energy, creating export industries that could fund a tremendous amount of growth.if we look at china's path, all of us know that prosperity in china has dramatically increased. in 1980, 80 percent of china's population lived below the extreme poverty level, below the level of having $1.90 per person per day. by the year 2000, only 20 percent of china's population lived below the extreme poverty level — a remarkable feat, admittedly, with some costs in civil liberties that would be tough to accept in the western world. but the impact of all that wealth allowed people to get massively better nutrition. it allowed water pipes to be placed. it allowed sewage pipes to be placed, dramatic decrease in diarrheal diseases, at the cost of some outdoor air pollution.but in 1980, and even today, the number one killer in china is indoor air pollution, because people do not have access to clean cooking and heating fuels. in fact, in 2040, it's still estimated that 200 million people in china will not have access to clean cooking fuels. they have a remarkable path to follow.india also needs to meet the needs of its own people, and it's going to do that by burning coal. when we look at the eia's projections of coal burning in india, india will supply nearly four times as much of its energy from coal as it will from renewables. it's not because they don't know the alternatives; it's because rich countries can do what they choose, poor countries do what they must.so what can we do to stop coal's emissions in time? what can we do that changes this forecast that's in front of us? because it's a forecast that we can change if we have the will to do it.first of all, we have to think about the magnitude of the problem. between now and 2040, 800 to 1,600 new coal plants are going to be built around the world. this week, between one and three one-gigawatt coal plants are being turned on around the world. that's happening regardless of what we want, because the people that rule their countries, assessing the interests of their citizens, have decided it's in the interest of their citizens to do that. and that's going to happen unless they have a better alternative. and every 100 of those plants will use up between one percent and three percent of the earth's climate budget.so every day that you go home thinking that you should do something about global warming, at the end of that week, remember: somebody fired up a coal plant that's going to run for 50 years and take away your ability to change it.what we've forgotten is something that vinod khosla used to talk about, a man of indian ethnicity but an american venture capitalist. and he said, back in the early 2000s, that if you needed to get china and india off of fossil fuels, you had to create a technology that passed the "chindia test," "chindia" being the appending of the two words. it had to be first of all viable, meaning that technically, they could implement it in their country, and that it would be accepted by the people in the country.two, it had to be a technology that was scalable, that it could deliver the same benefits on the same timetable as fossil fuels, so that they can enjoy the kind of life, again, that we take for granted.and third, it had to be cost-effective without subsidy or without mandate. it had to stand on its own two feet; it could not be maintained for that many people if in fact, those countries had to go begging or had some foreign country say, "i won't trade with you," in order to get the technology shift to occur.if you look at the chindia test, we simply have not come up with alternatives that meet that test. that's what the eia forecast tells us. china's building 800 gigawatts of coal, 400 gigawatts of hydro, about 200 gigawatts of nuclear, and on an energy-equivalent basis, adjusting for intermittency, about 100 gigawatts of renewables. 800 gigawatts of coal. they're doing that, knowing the costs better than any other country, knowing the need better than any other country. but that's what they're aiming for in 2040 unless we give them a better choice. to give them a better choice, it's going to have to meet the chindia test.if you look at all the alternatives that are out there, there are really two that come near to meeting it. first is this area of new nuclear that i'll talk about in just a second. it's a new generation of nuclear plants that are on the drawing boards around the world, and the people who are developing these say we can get them in position to demo by 2025 and to scale by 2030, if you will just let us. the second alternative that could be there in time is utility-scale solar backed up with natural gas, which we can use today, versus the batteries which are still under development.so what's holding new nuclear back? outdated regulations and yesterday's mindsets. we have not used our latest scientific thinking on radiological health to think how we communicate with the public and govern the testing of new nuclear reactors. we have new scientific knowledge that we need to use in order to improve the way we regulate nuclear industry.the second thing is we've got a mindset that it takes 25 years and 2 to 5 billion dollars to develop a nuclear power plant. that comes from the historical, military mindset of the places nuclear power came from. these new nuclear ventures are saying that they can deliver power for 5 cents a kilowatt hour; they can deliver it for 100 gigawatts a year; they can demo it by 2025; and they can deliver it in scale by 2030, if only we give them a chance.right now, we're basically waiting for a miracle. what we need is a choice. if they can't make it safe, if they can't make it cheap, it should not be deployed. but what i want you to do is not carry an idea forward, but write your leaders, write the head of the ngos you support, and tell them to give you the choice, not the past.thank you very much. <title = "An interview with the founders of Black Lives Matter">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Gender equality', 'activism', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'government', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'immigration', 'inequality', 'media', 'poverty', 'race', 'social change', 'social media', 'society']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist">
mia birdsong: why is black lives matter important for the us right now and in the world?patrisse cullors: black lives matter is our call to action. it is a tool to reimagine a world where black people are free to exist, free to live. it is a tool for our allies to show up differently for us.i grew up in a neighborhood that was heavily policed. i witnessed my brothers and my siblings continuously stopped and frisked by law enforcement. i remember my home being raided. and one of my questions as a child was, why? why us? black lives matter offers answers to the why. it offers a new vision for young black girls around the world that we deserve to be fought for, that we deserve to call on local governments to show up for us.opal tometi: and antiblack racism — and antiblack racism is not only happening in the united states. it's actually happening all across the globe. and what we need now more than ever is a human rights movement that challenges systemic racism in every single context. we need this because the global reality is that black people are subject to all sorts of disparities in most of our most challenging issues of our day. i think about issues like climate change, and how six of the 10 worst impacted nations by climate change are actually on the continent of africa. people are reeling from all sorts of unnatural disasters, displacing them from their ancestral homes and leaving them without a chance at making a decent living.we also see disasters like hurricane matthew, which recently wreaked havoc in many different nations, but caused the most damage to haiti. haiti is the poorest country in this hemisphere, and its inhabitants are black people. and what we're seeing in haiti is that they were actually facing a number of challenges that even preceded this hurricane. they were reeling from the earthquake, they were reeling from cholera that was brought in by un peacekeepers and still hasn't been eradicated. this is unconscionable. and this would not happen if this nation didn't have a population that was black, and we have to be real about that.but what's most heartening right now is that despite these challenges, what we're seeing is that there's a network of africans all across the continent who are rising up and fighting back and demanding climate justice. mb: so alicia, you've said that when black people are free, everyone is free. can you talk about what that means?alicia garza: sure. so i think race and racism is probably the most studied social, economic and political phenomenon in this country, but it's also the least understood. the reality is that race in the united states operates on a spectrum from black to white. doesn't mean that people who are in between don't experience racism, but it means that the closer you are to white on that spectrum, the better off you are. and the closer to black that you are on that spectrum the worse off your are. when we think about how we address problems in this country, we often start from a place of trickle-down justice. so using white folks as the control we say, well, if we make things better for white folks then everybody else is going to get free. but actually it doesn't work that way. we have to address problems at the root, and when you deal with what's happening in black communities, it creates an effervescence, right? so a bubble up rather than a trickle down. let me give an example. when we talk about the wage gap, we often say women make 78 cents to every dollar that a man makes. you all have heard that before. but those are the statistics for white women and white men. the reality is that black women make something like 64 cents to every 78 cents that white women make. when we talk about latinas, it goes down to about 58 cents. if we were to talk about indigenous women, if we were to talk about trans women, it would even go further down. so again, if you deal with those who are the most impacted, everybody has an opportunity to benefit from that, rather than dealing with the folks who are not as impacted, and expecting it to trickle down.mb: so i love the effervescence, bubbling up.ag: effervescence — like champagne. mb: who doesn't love a glass of champagne, right? champagne and freedom, right? what more could we want, y'all?so you all have been doing this for a minute, and the last few years have been — well, i can't even imagine, but i'm sure very transformative. and i know that you all have learned a lot about leadership. what do you want to share with these people about what you've learned about leadership? patrisse, let's start with you.pc: yeah, we have to invest in black leadership. that's what i've learned the most in the last few years. what we've seen is thousands of black people showing up for our lives with very little infrastructure and very little support. i think our work as movement leaders isn't just about our own visibility but rather how do we make the whole visible. how do we not just fight for our individual selves but fight for everybody? and i also think leadership looks like everybody in this audience showing up for black lives. it's not just about coming and watching people on a stage, right? it's about how do you become that leader — whether it's in your workplace, whether it's in your home — and believe that the movement for black lives isn't just for us, but it's for everybody. mb: what about you, opal?ot: so i've been learning a great deal about interdependence. i've been learning about how to trust your team. i've come up with this new mantra after coming back from a three-month sabbatical, which is rare for black women to take who are in leadership, but i felt it was really important for my leadership and for my team to also practice stepping back as well as also sometimes stepping in. and what i learned in this process was that we need to acknowledge that different people contribute different strengths, and that in order for our entire team to flourish, we have to allow them to share and allow them to shine. and so during my sabbatical with the organization that i also work with, i saw our team rise up in my absence. they were able to launch new programs, fundraise. and when i came back, i had to give them a lot of gratitude and praise because they showed me that they truly had my back and that they truly had their own backs.you know, in this process of my sabbatical, i was really reminded of this southern african philosophy of ubuntu. i am because you are; you are because i am. and i realized that my own leadership, and the contributions that i'm able to make, is in large part due to the contributions that they make, right? and i have to acknowledge that, and i have to see that, and so my new mantra is, "keep calm and trust the team." and also, "keep calm and thank the team."mb: you know, one of the things i feel like i've heard in the context of the black lives matter movement more than anywhere else is about being a leaderful movement, and that's such a beautiful concept, and i think that something that women often bring to the conversation about leadership is really the collective piece. what about you, alicia?ag: yeah ... how many of you heard that saying that leadership is lonely? i think that there is an element where leadership is lonely, but i also believe that it doesn't have to be like that. and in order for us to get to that point, i think there's a few things that we need to be doing.so one is we have to stop treating leaders like superheroes. we are ordinary people attempting to do extraordinary things, and so we need to be supported in that way.the other thing that i've learned about leadership is that there's a difference between leadership and celebrities, right? and there's a way in which we've been kind of transformed into celebrities rather than people who are trying to solve a problem. and the way that we treat celebrities is very fickle, right? we like them one day, we don't like what they're wearing the next day, and all of a sudden we have issues, right? so we need to stop deifying leaders so that more people will step into leadership. lots of people are terrified to step into leadership because of how much scrutiny they receive and how brutal we are with leaders.and then the last thing that i've learned about leadership is that it's really easy to be a leader when everybody likes you. but it's hard to be a leader when you have to make hard choices and when you have to do what's right, even though people are not going to like you for it. and so in that way, i think another way that we can support leaders is to struggle with us, but struggle with us politically, not personally. we can have disagreements without being disagreeable, but it's important for us to sharpen each other, so that we all can rise.mb: that's beautiful, thank you. so you all are doing work that forces you to face some brutal, painful realities on a daily basis. what gives you hope and inspires you in that context?pc: i am hopeful for black futures. and i say that because we live in a society that's so obsessed with black death. we have images of our death on the tv screen, on our twitter timelines, on our facebook timelines, but what if instead we imagine black life? we imagine black people living and thriving. and that — that inspires me.ot: what inspires me these days are immigrants. immigrants all over the world who are doing the best that they can to make a living, to survive and also to thrive. right now there are over 244 million people who aren't living in their country of origin. this is a 40 percent increase since the year 2000. so what this tells me is that the disparities across the globe are only getting worse. yet there are people who are finding the strength and wherewithal to travel, to move, to eke out a better living for themselves and to provide for their families and their loved ones. and some of these people who are immigrants are also undocumented. they're unauthorized. and they inspire me even more because although our society is telling them, you're not wanted, you're not needed here, and they're highly vulnerable and subject to abuse, to wage theft, to exploitation and xenophobic attacks, many of them are also beginning to organize in their communities. and what i'm seeing is that there's also an emerging network of black, undocumented people who are resisting the framework, and resisting the criminalization of their existence. and that to me is incredibly powerful and inspires me every singe day.mb: thank you. alicia?ag: so we know that young people are the present and the future, but what inspires me are older people who are becoming transformed in the service of this movement. we all know that as you get older, you get a little more entrenched in your ways. it's happening to me, i know that's right. but i'm so inspired when i see people who have a way that they do things, have a way that they think about the world, and they're courageous enough to be open to listening to what the experiences are of so many of us who want to live in world that's just and want to live in a world that's equitable. and i'm also inspired by the actions that i'm seeing older people taking in service of this movement. i'm inspired by seeing older people step into their own power and leadership and say, "i'm not passing a torch, i'm helping you light the fire." mb: i love that — yes.so in terms of action, i think that it is awesome to sit here and be able to listen to you all, and to have our minds open and shift, but that's not going to get black people free. so if you had one thing you would like this audience and the folks who are watching around the world to actually do, what would that be?ag: ok, two quick ones. one, call the white house. the water protectors are being forcibly removed from the camp that they have set up to defend what keeps us alive. and that is intricately related to black lives. so definitely call the white house and demand that they stop doing that. there are tanks and police officers arresting every single person there as we speak. the second thing that you can do is to join something. be a part of something. there are groups, collectives — doesn't have to be a non-profit, you know what i mean? but there are groups that are doing work in our communities right now to make sure that black lives matter so all lives matter. get involved; don't sit on your couch and tell people what you think they should be doing. go do it with us.mb: do you guys want to add anything? that's good? all right. so — and i think that the joining something, like if you feel like there's not something where you are, start it.ag: start it.mb: these conversations that we're having, have those conversations with somebody else. and then instead of just letting it be a talk that you had, actually decide to start something.ot: that's right.mb: i mean, that's what you all did. you started something, and look what's happened. thank you all so much for being here with us today.ot: thank you. <title = "Maps that show us who we are (not just where we are)">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'data', 'economics', 'global development', 'humanity', 'map', 'population', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Social geographer">
i'd like you to imagine the world anew. i'd like to show you some maps, which have been drawn by ben hennig, of the planet in a way that most of you will never have seen the planet depicted before.here's an image that you're very familiar with. i'm old enough that i was actually born before we saw this image. apparently some of my first words were "moona, moona," but i think that's my mom having a particular fantasy about what her baby boy could see on the flickering black and white tv screen. it's only been a few centuries since we've actually, most of us, thought of our planet as spherical. when we first saw these images in the 1960s, the world was changing at an incredible rate. in my own little discipline of human geography, a cartographer called waldo tobler was drawing new maps of the planet, and these maps have now spread, and i'm going to show you one of them now. this map is a map of the world, but it's a map which looks to you a little bit strange. it's a map in which we stretched places, so that those areas which contain many people are drawn larger, and those areas, like the sahara and the himalayas, in which there are few people, have been shrunk away. everybody on the planet is given an equal amount of space. the cities are shown shining bright. the lines are showing you submarine cables and trade routes. and there's one particular line that goes from the chinese port of dalian through past singapore, through the suez canal, through the mediterranean and round to rotterdam. and it's showing you the route of what was the world's largest ship just a year ago, a ship which was taking so many containers of goods that when they were unloaded, if the lorries had all gone in convoy, they would have been 100 kilometers long. this is how our world is now connected. this is the quantity of stuff we are now moving around the world, just on one ship, on one voyage, in five weeks.we've lived in cities for a very long time, but most of us didn't live in cities. this is çatalhöyük, one of the world's first cities. at its peak 9,000 years ago, people had to walk over the roofs of others' houses to get to their home. if you look carefully at the map of the city, you'll see it has no streets, because streets are something we invented. the world changes. it changes by trial and error. we work out slowly and gradually how to live in better ways. and the world has changed incredibly quickly most recently. it's only within the last six, seven, or eight generations that we have actually realized that we are a species. it's only within the last few decades that a map like this could be drawn. again, the underlying map is the map of world population, but over it, you're seeing arrows showing how we spread out of africa with dates showing you where we think we arrived at particular times. i have to redraw this map every few months, because somebody makes a discovery that a particular date was wrong. we are learning about ourselves at an incredible speed. and we're changing. a lot of change is gradual. it's accretion. we don't notice the change because we only have short lives, 70, 80, if you're lucky 90 years. this graph is showing you the annual rate of population growth in the world. it was very low until around about 1850, and then the rate of population growth began to rise so that around the time i was born, when we first saw those images from the moon of our planet, our global population was growing at two percent a year. if it had carried on growing at two percent a year for just another couple of centuries, the entire planet would be covered with a seething mass of human bodies all touching each other. and people were scared. they were scared of population growth and what they called "the population bomb" in 1968. but then, if you look at the end of the graph, the growth began to slow. the decade — the '70s, the '80s, the '90s, the noughties, and in this decade, even faster — our population growth is slowing. our planet is stabilizing. we are heading towards nine, 10, or 11 billion people by the end of the century. within that change, you can see tumult. you can see the second world war. you can see the pandemic in 1918 from influenza. you can see the great chinese famine. these are the events we tend to concentrate on. we tend to concentrate on the terrible events in the news. we don't tend to concentrate on the gradual change and the good news stories.we worry about people. we worry about how many people there are. we worry about how you can get away from people. but this is the map of the world changed again to make area large, the further away people are from each area. so if you want to know where to go to get away from everybody, here's the best places to go. and every year, these areas get bigger, because every year, we are coming off the land globally. we are moving into the cities. we are packing in more densely. there are wolves again in europe, and the wolves are moving west across the continent. our world is changing.you have worries. this is a map showing where the water falls on our planet. we now know that. and you can look at where çatalhöyük was, where three continents meet, africa, asia, and europe, and you can see there are a large number of people living there in areas with very little water. and you can see areas in which there is a great deal of rainfall as well. and we can get a bit more sophisticated. instead of making the map be shaped by people, we can shape the map by water, and then we can change it every month to show the amount of water falling on every small part of the globe. and you see the monsoons moving around the planet, and the planet almost appears to have a heartbeat. and all of this only became possible within my lifetime to see this is where we are living. we have enough water.this is a map of where we grow our food in the world. this is the areas that we will rely on most for rice and maize and corn. people worry that there won't be enough food, but we know, if we just ate less meat and fed less of the crops to animals, there is enough food for everybody as long as we think of ourselves as one group of people.and we also know about what we do so terribly badly nowadays. you will have seen this map of the world before. this is the map produced by taking satellite images, if you remember those satellites around the planet in the very first slide i showed, and producing an image of what the earth looks like at night. when you normally see that map, on a normal map, the kind of map that most of you will be used to, you think you are seeing a map of where people live. where the lights are shining up is where people live. but here, on this image of the world, remember we've stretched the map again. everywhere has the same density of people on this map. if an area doesn't have people, we've shrunk it away to make it disappear. so we're showing everybody with equal prominence. now, the lights no longer show you where people are, because people are everywhere. now the lights on the map, the lights in london, the lights in cairo, the lights in tokyo, the lights on the eastern seaboard of the united states, the lights show you where people live who are so profligate with energy that they can afford to spend money powering lights to shine up into the sky, so satellites can draw an image like this. and the areas that are dark on the map are either areas where people do not have access to that much energy, or areas where people do, but they have learned to stop shining the light up into the sky. and if i could show you this map animated over time, you would see that tokyo has actually become darker, because ever since the tsunami in japan, japan has had to rely on a quarter less electricity because it turned the nuclear power stations off. and the world didn't end. you just shone less light up into the sky.there are a huge number of good news stories in the world. infant mortality is falling and has been falling at an incredible rate. a few years ago, the number of babies dying in their first year of life in the world fell by five percent in just one year. more children are going to school and learning to read and write and getting connected to the internet and going on to go to university than ever before at an incredible rate, and the highest number of young people going to university in the world are women, not men. i can give you good news story after good news story about what is getting better in the planet, but we tend to concentrate on the bad news that is immediate. rebecca solnit, i think, put it brilliantly, when she explained: "the accretion of incremental, imperceptible changes which can constitute progress and which render our era dramatically different from the past" — the past was much more stable — "a contrast obscured by the undramatic nature of gradual transformation, punctuated by occasional tumult." occasionally, terrible things happen. you are shown those terrible things on the news every night of the week. you are not told about the population slowing down. you are not told about the world becoming more connected. you are not told about the incredible improvements in understanding. you are not told about how we are learning to begin to waste less and consume less.this is my last map. on this map, we have taken the seas and the oceans out. now you are just looking at about 7.4 billion people with the map drawn in proportion to those people. you're looking at over a billion in china, and you can see the largest city in the world in china, but you do not know its name. you can see that india is in the center of this world. you can see that europe is on the edge. and we in exeter today are on the far edge of the planet. we are on a tiny scrap of rock off europe which contains less than one percent of the world's adults, and less than half a percent of the world's children. we are living in a stabilizing world, an urbanizing world, an aging world, a connecting world. there are many, many things to be frightened about, but there is no need for us to fear each other as much as we do, and we need to see that we are now living in a new world.thank you very much. <title = "How an old loop of railroads is changing the face of a city">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'cities', 'design', 'environment', 'garden', 'infrastructure', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Urban planner, designer, author">
this picture is from my metro card when i spent a year abroad in paris in college in the mid-'90s. my friend says i look like a french anarchist — but this is still what i see when i look in the mirror in the morning. within a month of living in paris, i'd lost 15 pounds and i was in the best shape of my life because i was eating fresh food and i was walking wherever i went.having grown up in suburban atlanta, a region built largely by highways and automobiles and with a reputation as a poster child for sprawl, paris fundamentally changed the way i understood the construction of the world around me, and i got obsessed with the role of infrastructure — that it's not just the way to move people from point a to point b, it's not just the way to convey water or sewage or energy, but it's the foundation for our economy. it's the foundation for our social life and for our culture, and it really matters to the way that we live.when i came home, i was instantly frustrated, stuck in traffic as i crossed the top end of our perimeter highway. not only was i not moving a muscle, i had no social interaction with the hundreds of thousands of people that were hurtling past me, like me, with their eyes faced forward and their music blaring. i wondered if this was an inevitable outcome, or could we do something about it. was it possible to transform this condition in atlanta into the kind of place that i wanted to live in?i went back to grad school in architecture and city planning, developed this interest in infrastructure, and in 1999 came up with an idea for my thesis project: the adaptation of an obsolete loop of old railroad circling downtown as a new infrastructure for urban revitalization. it was just an idea. i never thought we would actually build it. but i went to work at an architecture firm, and eventually talked to my coworkers about it, and they loved the idea. and as we started talking to more people about it, more people wanted to hear about it.in the summer of 2001, we connected with cathy woolard, who was soon elected city council president. and we built a citywide vision around this idea: the atlanta beltline, a 22-mile loop of transit and trails and transformation. i was doing two and three meetings a week for two and a half years, and so was cathy and her staff and a handful of volunteers. together, we built this amazing movement of people and ideas. it included community advocates who were used to fighting against things, but found the atlanta beltline as something that they could fight for; developers who saw the opportunity to take advantage of a lot of new growth in the city; and dozens of nonprofit partners who saw their mission at least partly accomplished by the shared vision.now, usually these groups of people aren't at the same table wanting the same outcome. but there we were, and it was kind of weird, but it was really, really powerful. the people of atlanta fell in love with a vision that was better than what they saw through their car windshields, and the people of atlanta made it happen, and i guarantee you we would not be building it otherwise.from the beginning, our coalition was diverse. people of all stripes were part of our story. people on the lower end of the economic spectrum loved it, too. they were just afraid they weren't going to be able to be there when it got built, that they'd be priced out. and we've all heard that kind of story before, right? but we promised that the atlanta beltline would be different, and people took ownership of the idea, and they made it better than anything we ever imagined in the beginning, including significant subsidies for housing, new parks, art, an arboretum — a list that continues to grow. and we put in place the organizations and agencies that were required to make it happen. and importantly, it is.now we're in the early stages of implementation, and it's working. the first mainline section of trail was opened in 2012, and it's already generated over three billion dollars of private-sector investment. but it's not only changing the physical form of the city, it's changing the way we think about the city, and what our expectations are for living there. about a month ago, i had to take my kids with me to the grocery store and they were complaining about it, because they didn't want to get in the car. they were saying, "dad, if we have to go, can we at least ride our bikes?" and i said, "of course we can. that's what people in atlanta do. we ride our bikes to the grocery store." thank you, yeah.now, they don't know how ridiculous that is, but i do. and i also understand that their expectations for atlanta are really powerful.this kind of transformation is exactly like sprawl in the last century, the movement where our investment in highways and automobiles fundamentally changed american life. that wasn't some grand conspiracy. there were conspiracies within it, of course. but it was a cultural momentum. it was millions of people making millions of decisions over an extended period of time, that fundamentally changed not only the way that we build cities, but it changed our expectations for our lives. these changes were the foundations for urban sprawl. we didn't call it sprawl at that time. we called it the future. and it was. and we got all the highways and strip malls and cul-de-sacs we wanted.it was a radical transformation, but it was built by a cultural momentum. so it's important to not separate the physical construction of the places we live from other things that are happening at that time. at that time, in the second half of the last century, science was curing disease and lifting us to the moon, and the sexual revolution was breaking down barriers, and the civil rights movement began its march toward the fulfillment of our nation's promise. television, entertainment, food, travel, business — everything was changing, and both the public and private sectors were colluding to give us the lives we wanted. the federal highway administration, for example, didn't exist before there were highways. think about it. of course, today it's important to understand and acknowledge that those benefits accrued to some groups of people and not to others. it was not an equitable cultural momentum. but when we look today in wonder and disgust, maybe, at the metropolis sprawl before us, we wonder if we're stuck. are we stuck with the legacy of that inequity? are we stuck with this dystopian traffic hellscape? are we stuck with rampant urban displacement, with environmental degradation? are we stuck with social isolation or political polarization? are these the inevitable and permanent outcomes? or are they the result of our collective cultural decisions that we've made for ourselves? and if they are, can't we change them?what i have learned from our experience in atlanta is not an anomaly. similar stories are playing out everywhere, where people are reclaiming not only old railroads, but also degraded urban waterways and obsolete roadways, reinventing all of the infrastructure in their lives. whether here in new york or in houston or miami, detroit, philadelphia, seoul, hong kong, singapore, toronto and paris, cities big and small all over the world are reclaiming and reinventing this infrastructure for themselves, including the mother of all catalyst infrastructure projects, the los angeles river, the revitalization effort for which similarly started as a grassroots movement, has developed into a cultural momentum, and is now in the early stages of being transformed into some kind of life-affirming infrastructure again, this one with trails and parks and fishing and boating and community revitalization, and of course, water quality and flood control. it's already improving the lives of people. it's already changing the way the rest of us think about los angeles.this is more than just infrastructure. we're building new lives for ourselves. it's a movement that includes local food, urban agriculture, craft beer, the maker movement, tech and design — all of these things, early indicators of a really radical shift in the way we build cities. we're taking places like this and transforming them into this. and soon this.and this is all exciting and good. we're changing the world for the better. good for us! and it is awesome — i mean that. but our history of sprawl, and from what we can already see with these catalyst projects today, we know and must remember that big changes like this don't usually benefit everyone. the market forces unleashed by this cultural momentum often include the seemingly unstoppable and inevitable cycle of rising taxes, prices and rents.this is urgent. if we care, we have to stand up and speak out. this should be a call to action, because the answer can't be to not improve communities. the answer can't be to not build parks and transit and grocery stores. the answer can't be to hold communities down just to keep them affordable. but we do have to follow through and address the financial realities that we're facing. this is hard, and it won't happen on its own. we can do it, and i'm committed to this goal in atlanta, to sticking up again for people who made it possible in the first place. we can't call it a success without them. i certainly can't, because the people i made commitments to all those years weren't abstract populations. they're my friends and neighbors. they're people that i love.so even though it started as my graduate thesis and i'm working hard for 16 years with thousands of people to help make this thing come to life, i know and believe that who the beltline is being built for is just as important as whether it's built at all. not just in atlanta, but locally and globally, we have to understand this accountability to the people whose lives we are changing, because this is us. we are the lives we're talking about. these places aren't inevitable. the places we live aren't inevitable, and if we want something different, we just need to speak up. we have to ensure that change comes on our terms. and to do that, we have to participate actively in the process of shaping change.thank you. <title = "4 larger-than-life lessons from soap operas">
<tags = "['business', 'personal growth', 'storytelling', 'television']">
<occupation = "Digital storyteller">
in 1987, tina lord found herself in quite the pickle. see, this gold digger made sure she married sweet cord roberts just before he inherited millions. but when cord found out tina loved his money as much as she loved him, he dumped her. cord's mother maria was thrilled until they hooked up again. so maria hired max holden to romance tina and then made sure cord didn't find out tina was pregnant with his baby. so tina, still married but thinking cord didn't love her flew to argentina with max. cord finally figured out what was going on and rushed after them, but he was too late. tina had already been kidnapped, strapped to a raft and sent over a waterfall. she and her baby were presumed dead. cord was sad for a bit, but then he bounced right back with a supersmart archaeologist named kate, and they had a gorgeous wedding until tina, seemingly back from the dead, ran into the church holding a baby. "stop!" she screamed. "am i too late? cord, i've come so far. this is your son."and that, ladies and gentlemen, is how the soap opera "one life to live" introduced a love story that lasted 25 years. now, if you've ever seen a soap opera, you know the stories and the characters can be exaggerated, larger than life, and if you're a fan, you find that exaggeration fun, and if you're not, maybe you find them melodramatic or unsophisticated. maybe you think watching soap operas is a waste of time, that their bigness means their lessons are small or nonexistent. but i believe the opposite to be true. soap operas reflect life, just bigger. so there are real life lessons we can learn from soap operas, and those lessons are as big and adventurous as any soap opera storyline.now, i've been a fan since i ran home from the bus stop in second grade desperate to catch the end of luke and laura's wedding, the biggest moment in "general hospital" history. so you can imagine how much i loved my eight years as the assistant casting director on "as the world turns." my job was watching soap operas, reading soap opera scripts and auditioning actors to be on soap operas. so i know my stuff. and yes, soap operas are larger than life, drama on a grand scale, but our lives can be filled with as much intensity, and the stakes can feel just as dramatic. we cycle through tragedy and joy just like these characters. we cross thresholds, fight demons and find salvation unexpectedly, and we do it again and again and again, but just like soaps, we can flip the script, which means we can learn from these characters that move like bumblebees, looping and swerving through life. and we can use those lessons to craft our own life stories. soap operas teach us to push away doubt and believe in our capacity for bravery, vulnerability, adaptability and resilience. and most importantly, they show us it's never too late to change your story.so with that, let's start with soap opera lesson one: surrender is not an option. "all my children"'s erica kane was daytime's version of scarlett o'hara, a hyperbolically self-important princess who deep down was scrappy and daring. now, in her 41 years on tv, perhaps erica's most famous scene is her alone in the woods suddenly face to face with a grizzly bear. she screamed at the bear, "you may not do this! do you understand me? you may not come near me! i am erica kane and you are a filthy beast!" and of course the bear left, so what that teaches us is obstacles are to be expected and we can choose to surrender or we can stand and fight.pandora's tim westergren knows this better than most. you might even call him the erica kane of silicon valley. tim and his cofounders launched the company with two million dollars in funding. they were out of cash the next year. now, lots of companies fold at that point, but tim chose to fight. he maxed out 11 credit cards and racked up six figures in personal debt and it still wasn't enough. so every two weeks for two years on payday he stood in front of his employees and he asked them to sacrifice their salaries, and it worked. more than 50 people deferred two million dollars, and now, more than a decade later, pandora is worth billions. when you believe that there is a way around or through whatever is in front of you, that surrender is not an option, you can overcome enormous obstacles.which brings us to soap opera lesson two: sacrifice your ego and drop the superiority complex.now, this is scary. it's an acknowledgment of need or fallibility. maybe it's even an admission that we're not as special as we might like to think. stephanie forrester of "the bold and the beautiful" thought she was pretty darn special. she thought she was so special, she didn't need to mix with the riffraff from the valley, and she made sure valley girl brooke knew it. but after nearly 25 years of epic fighting, stephanie got sick and let brooke in. they made amends, archenemies became soul mates and stephanie died in brooke's arms, and here's our takeaway. drop your ego. life is not about you. it's about us, and our ability to experience joy and love and to improve our reality comes only when we make ourselves vulnerable and we accept responsibility for our actions and our inactions, kind of like howard schultz, the ceo of starbucks.now, after a great run as ceo, howard stepped down in 2000, and starbucks quickly overextended itself and stock prices fell. howard rejoined the team in 2008, and one of the first things he did was apologize to all 180,000 employees. he apologized. and then he asked for help, honesty, and ideas in return. and now, starbucks has more than doubled its net revenue since howard came back. so sacrifice your desire to be right or safe all the time. it's not helping anyone, least of all you. sacrifice your ego.soap opera lesson three: evolution is real. you're not meant to be static characters. on television, static equals boring and boring equals fired. characters are supposed to grow and change. now, on tv, those dynamic changes can make for some rough transitions, particularly when a character is played by one person yesterday and played by someone new today. recasting happens all the time on soaps. over the last 20 years, four different actors have played the same key role of carly benson on "general hospital." each new face triggered a change in the character's life and personality. now, there was always an essential nugget of carly in there, but the character and the story adapted to whomever was playing her.and here's what that means for us. while we may not swap faces in our own lives, we can evolve too. we can choose to draw a circle around our feet and stay in that spot, or we can open ourselves to opportunities like carly, who went from nursing student to hotel owner, or like julia child.julia was a world war ii spy, and when the war ended, she got married, moved to france, and decided to give culinary school a shot. julia, her books and her tv shows revolutionized the way america cooks.we all have the power to initiate change in our lives, to evolve and adapt. we make the choice, but sometimes life chooses for us, and we don't get a heads up. surprise slams us in the face. you're flat on the ground, the air is gone, and you need resuscitation.so thank goodness for soap opera lesson four: resurrection is possible. in 1983, "days of our lives"' stefano dimera died of a stroke, but not really, because in 1984 he died when his car plunged into the harbor, and yet he was back in 1985 with a brain tumor. but before the tumor could kill him, marlena shot him, and he tumbled off a catwalk to his death. and so it went for 30 years. even when we saw the body, we knew better. he's called the phoenix for a reason. and here's what that means for us. as long as the show is still on the air, or you're still breathing, nothing is permanent. resurrection is possible.now, of course, just like life, soap operas do ultimately meet the big finale. cbs canceled my show, "as the world turns," in december 2009, and we shot our final episode in june 2010. it was six months of dying and i rode that train right into the mountain. and even though we were in the middle of a huge recession and millions of people were struggling to find work, i somehow thought everything would be ok. so i packed up the kids and the brooklyn apartment, and we moved in with my in-laws in alabama. three months later, nothing was ok. that was when i watched the final episode air, and i realized the show was not the only fatality. i was one too. i was unemployed and living on the second floor of my in-laws' home, and that's enough to make anyone feel dead inside. but i knew my story wasn't over, that it couldn't be over. i just had to tap into everything i had ever learned about soap operas. i had to be brave like erica and refuse to surrender, so every day, i made a decision to fight. i had to be vulnerable like stephanie and sacrifice my ego. i had to ask for help a lot of times across many states. i had to be adaptable like carly and evolve my skills, my mindset, and my circumstances, and then i had to be resilient, like stefano, and resurrect myself and my career like a phoenix from the ashes.eventually i got an interview. after 15 years in news and entertainment, nine months of unemployment and this one interview, i had an offer for an entry level job. i was 37 years old and i was back from the dead.we will all experience what looks like an ending, and we can choose to make it a beginning. kind of like tina, who miraculously survived that waterfall, and because i hate to leave a cliffhanger hanging, tina and cord did get divorced, but they got remarried three times before the show went off the air in 2012.so remember, as long as there is breath in your body, it's never too late to change your story.thank you. <title = "A queer vision of love and marriage">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'Gender spectrum', 'LGBT', 'Transgender', 'activism', 'art', 'beauty', 'collaboration', 'compassion', 'family', 'feminism', 'gender', 'happiness', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'poetry', 'relationships', 'social change', 'society', 'women', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Transgender activist">
tiq milan: our first conversation was on facebook, and it was three days long. we shared over 3,000 messages between us, and it was during those 72 hours that i knew she was going to be my wife. we didn't wait any prerequisite amount of time for our courtship; we told each other the vulnerable truths up front: i am a transgender man, which means the f on my birth certificate should have stood for "false," instead of "female." walking around as a woman in the world felt like walking with pebbles in my shoes. it took the rhythm out of my swagger, it threw me off balance, it pained me with every step i took forward. but today i'm a man of my own intention; a man of my own design.kim katrin milan: i am a cisgender queer woman. cisgender means the gender i was assigned at birth is still and has always been female. this doesn't make me natural or normal, this is just one way of describing the many different ways that we exist in this world. and queer is a cultural term, but in this case, it refers to the way that i'm not restricted by gender when it comes to choosing partners. i've identified in a few different ways — as a bisexual, as a lesbian — but for me, queerness encompasses all of the layers of who i am and how i've loved. i'm layers, and not fractions. and for me, the fact that he was queer meant that i could trust his courtship from the very beginning.as queer and trans people, we're so often excluded from institutions and traditions. we create spaces outside of convention, including the conventions of time. and in those 3,000 messages between us, we collapsed time; we queered it; we laid it all on the table. with no pretense at all. and this meant that we were able to commit to each other in a profoundly different way.so often what we're told is this idea of the "golden rule," that we should treat other people the way we want to be treated. but the problem with that is that it assumes that we are the standard for other people, and we're not. we need to treat other people the way they want to be treated, which means we had to ask. i couldn't assume that the kind of love that tiq needed was the same kind of love that i needed. so i asked him everything — about his fears, his insecurities — and we started from there.tm: i didn't know what kind of love i needed. i had just come out of a year-long fog of being rejected and utterly depleted. i had someone look me in my eyes and tell me that i was unworthy of their love because i was trans. and there's a culture of lovelessness that we've created around transgender people. it's reasoned, justified and often signed into law. and i was a heartbeat away from internalizing that message, that i wasn't worthy. but kim said that i was her ideal — the heartbroken mess that i was. kkm: he totally was my ideal. in more ways than one. both poets, writers, creatives with a long history of community work behind us, and big, huge dreams of a family in front of us, we shared a lot of things in common, but we were also incredibly different. i've been a lifelong traveler and a bit of an orphan, whereas he comes from a huge family, and definitely stays grounded. i often kind of sum up the differences in our strengths by saying, "keep me safe, and i'll keep you wild." tm: we have marginalized identities but we don't live marginalized lives. being queer and trans is about creating new ways of existing. it's about loving people as they are, not as they're supposed to be. kim is unapologetically feminine in a world that is often cruel and violent to women who are too proud and too freeing. and i didn't enter into this union under the auspices that she was going to be my helper or my rib, but a fully complex — kkm: right? that's not right.tm: but a fully complex human being whose femininity wasn't for me to rein in, control or critique. it's her brilliance, the way she leads with compassion, and how she never loses sight of her empathy. she has been my hero since day one. kkm: our relationship has always been about setting each other free. one of the first questions i asked him was what dreams he had left to accomplish, and how would i help him get there. his dreams to live as a poet, to adopt and raise a family together, to live a life that he was proud of, and one that would live up to his mother's incredible legacy. and i really appreciated that we were able to start from that place, and not from a place that was around figuring out how to make each other work together. and i think this really allowed us to grow into the people that we were in a way that was incredibly different. i love him whole; pre-transition, now and in the future. and it's this love that had us committed to each other before we'd even seen each other's faces.tm: my mother's biggest concern when i transitioned was who was going to love me as i am. had being transgender somehow precluded me from love and monogamy because i was supposedly born in the wrong body? but it's this type of structuring that has to be reframed in order to let love in. my body never betrayed me, and my body was never wrong. it's this restrictive, binary thinking on gender that said that i didn't exist. but when we met, she loved me for exactly how i showed up. she would trace her fingers along the numb keloid scars left by my top surgery. scars that run from the middle of my chest all the way out to my outer torso. she said that these were reminders of my strength and everything that i went through and nothing for me to be ashamed of. so sprinting towards her hand in marriage was the queerest thing that i could do. it flew in the face of more conventional trajectories of love and relationships, because god was never supposed to bless a union for folks like us, and the law was never supposed to recognize it.kkm: so on may 5, 2014, just about three months after meeting online, we were married on the steps of city hall in manhattan, and it was beautiful in every conceivable way. it's safe to say that we reimagined some traditions, but we also kept some old ones that we worked in, and we created something that worked for us. my bouquet and corsage was actually filled with wildflowers from brooklyn — also added in a little bit of lavender and sage to keep us grounded because we were so nervous. and it was put together by a sweet sister healer friend of ours. i never wanted a diamond ring, because conflict and convention are not my thing, so my ring is the deepest purple, like the color of my crown chakra, and set in place with my birthstones.the gift of queerness is options. i never had to choose his last name, it was never an exception, but i did because i am my father's bastard child, someone who has always been an apology, a secret, an imposition. and it was incredibly freeing to choose the name of a man who chose me first. tm: so we told some family and some close friends, many of whom were still in disbelief as we took our vows. fittingly, we posted all of our wedding photos on facebook, where we met — and instagram, of course. and we quickly realized that our coming together was more than just a union of two people, but was a model of possibility for the millions of lgbtq folks who have been sold this lie that family and matrimony is antithetical to who they are — for those of us who rarely get to see ourselves reflected in love and happiness.kkm: and the thing is, absolutely we are marginalized because of our identities, but it also emboldens us to be the people that we are. queerness is our major key; blackness is our magic. it's because of these things that we are able to be hopeful, open, receptive and shape-shifting. these are the things that give us, and are such an incredible source of, our strength. our queerness is a source of that strength.i think of the words of ottawa-based poet brandon wint: "not queer like gay; queer like escaping definition. queer like some sort of fluidity and limitlessness all at once. queer like a freedom too strange to be conquered. queer like the fearlessness to imagine what love can look like, and to pursue it."tm: we are part of a community of folks — yeah, that's good right? we are part of a community of folks who are living their authentic selves all along the gender spectrum, despite the ubiquitous threat of violence, despite the undercurrent of anxiety that always is present for people who live on their own terms. globally, a transgender person is murdered every 21 hours. and the united states has had more trans murders on record this year than any year to date. however, our stories are much more than this rigid dichotomy of strength and resilience. we are expanding the human complexity on these margins, and we are creating freedom on these margins.kkm: and we don't have any blueprints. we're creating a world that we have literally never seen before; organizing families based on love and not by blood, guiding by a compassion that so few of us have been shown ourselves.so many of us have not received love from our families — have been betrayed by the people that we trust most. so what we do here is we create entirely new languages of love. ones that are about creating the space for us to be our authentic selves and not imposing this standard of what masculinity or femininity is supposed to be.tm: we are interested in love and inclusion as a tool of revolutionary change, right? and the idea is simply, if we drop all our preconceived notions about how somebody is supposed to be — in their body, in their gender, in their skin — if we take the intentional steps to unlearn these deep-seated biases and create space for people to be self-determined, and embrace who they are, then we will definitely create a better world than the one we were born into. kkm: we want to mark this time in history by leaving evidence of the fact that we were here. we open up little windows into our relationship for our community to bear witness, and we do this because we want to make maps to the future and not monuments to ourselves. our experience does not invalidate other peoples' experience, but it should and necessarily does complicate this idea of what love and marriage are supposed to be.tm: ok, now for all the talking, and inspiring, and possibility-modeling we've done, we've been nowhere near perfect. and we've had to hold a mirror up to ourselves. and i saw that i wasn't always the best listener, and that my ego got in the way of our progress as a couple. and i've had to really assess these deep-seated, sexist ideas that i've had about the value of a woman's experience in the world. i've had to reevaluate what it means to be in allyship with my wife.kkm: and i had to remind myself of a lot of things, too. what it means to be hard on the issues, but soft on the person. while we were writing this, we got into a massive fight. for so many different reasons, but based on the content about our values and our lived experiences — and we were really hurt, you know? because what we do and how we love puts ourselves entirely on the line. but even though the fight lasted over the course of two days — we were able to come back together to each other, and recommit to ourselves, to each other and to our marriage. and that really yielded some of the most passionate parts of what we share with you here today.tm: i have had to interrogate masculinity, which i think doesn't happen enough. i've had to interrogate masculinity; the toxic privileges that come with being a man don't define me, but i have to be accountable for how it shows up in my life every day. i have allowed my wife to do all of the emotional labor of prying open the lines of communication when i'd rather clam up and run away. i've stripped away emotional support instead of facing my own vulnerabilities, particularly around the heartbreaking miscarriage we suffered last year, and i'm sorry for that. sometimes as men, we get to take the easy way out. and so my journey as a trans person is about reimagining masculinity. about creating a manhood that isn't measured by the power it wields, by the entitlements afforded to it, or any simulacrum of control that it can muster, but works in tandem with femininity, and is guided by my spirit.kkm: y'all ... and this has created the space for my femininity to flourish in a way i had never experienced before. he never is threatened by my sexuality, he never polices what i wear or how i act. i cook but he does way more of the cleaning than i do. and when we're rushing to get out of the house and we have so much to handle, he handles everything, so i have time to do my hair and makeup. he understands that this is my armor, and he never treats femininity as though it is frivolous or superficial, and this, and him — he grows my experience of gender every single day.tm: i love to watch her get dressed in the morning. watching her in the closet, looking for something comfortable and colorful, and tight, and safe — but it's challenging to watch her negotiate her decisions looking for something that's going to get the least amount of attention, but at the same time be an expression of the vibrant and sexy woman she is. and all i want to do is celebrate her for her beauty, and the things that make her beautiful and special and free, from her long acrylic nails, to her uncompromising black feminism. kkm: i love you. tm: i love you. kkm: there are so many queer and trans people who have come before us, whose stories we will never get to hear. we constantly experience this retelling of history where we are conspicuously left out. and it's really hard to not see ourselves there. and so living out loud for us is about that representation. it's about having possibility models, and having hope that love is part of our inheritance in this world, too.tm: the possibility that we are practicing is about reinventing time, love and institutions. we are creating a future of multiplicity. we are expanding the spectrum of gender and sexuality, imagining ourselves into existence, imagining a world where gender is self-determined and not imposed, and where who we are is a kaleidoscope of possibility without the narrow-minded limitations masquerading as science or justice. kkm: and i can't lie: it is really, really hard. it is hard to stand in the face of bigotry with an open heart and a smile on my face. it is really hard to face the injustice that exists in the world, while still believing in the ability of people to really change. that takes an enormous amount of faith and dedication. and beyond that, marriage is hard work. piles of dirty socks on the floor, more boring sports shows than i ever thought possible — and fights that bring me to tears when it feels like we're not speaking the same language. but there is not a day that goes by where i am not so grateful to be married to this man; where i'm not so grateful for the possibility of changing minds, and rewarding conversations, and creating a world where love belongs to us all.i think about our acronym: lgbtq2sia. a seemingly endless evolution of self and a community, but also this really deep desire not to leave anyone behind. we've learned how to love each other, and we've committed to loving each other throughout changes to gender and changes in spirit. and we learned this love in our chat rooms, in our clubs, in our bars and in our community centers. we've learned how to love each other for the long haul.tm & kkm: thank you. <title = "Let's clean up the space junk orbiting Earth">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'communication', 'engineering', 'environment', 'exploration', 'rocket science', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Rocket scientist, explorer">
our lives depend on a world we can't see. think about your week so far. have you watched tv, used gps, checked the weather or even ate a meal? these many things that enable our daily lives rely either directly or indirectly on satellites. and while we often take for granted the services that satellites provide us, the satellites themselves deserve our attention as they are leaving a lasting mark on the space they occupy.people around the world rely on satellite infrastructure every day for information, entertainment and to communicate. there's agricultural and environmental monitoring, internet connectivity, navigation. satellites even play a role in the operation of our financial and energy markets. but these satellites that we rely on day in and day out have a finite life. they might run out of propellant, they could malfunction, or they may just naturally reach the end of their mission life. at this point, these satellites effectively become space junk, cluttering the orbital environment.so imagine you're driving down the highway on a beautiful, sunny day out running errands. you've got your music cranked, your windows rolled down, with the cool breeze blowing through your hair. feels nice, right? everything is going smoothly until suddenly your car stutters and stalls right in the middle of the highway. so now you have no choice but to abandon your car where it is on the highway. maybe you were lucky enough to be able to move it out of the way and into a shoulder lane so that it's out of the way of other traffic. a couple of hours ago, your car was a useful machine that you relied on in your everyday life. now, it's a useless hunk of metal taking up space in a valuable transportation network. and imagine international roadways all cluttered with broken down vehicles that are just getting in the way of other traffic. and imagine the debris that would be strewn everywhere if a collision actually happened, thousands of smaller pieces of debris becoming new obstacles.this is the paradigm of the satellite industry. satellites that are no longer working are often left to deorbit over many, many years, or only moved out of the way as a temporary solution. and there are no international laws in space to enforce us to clean up after ourselves.so the world's first satellite, sputnik i, was launched in 1957, and in that year, there were only a total of three launch attempts. decades later and dozens of countries from all around the world have launched thousands of more satellites into orbit, and the frequency of launches is only going to increase in the future, especially if you consider things like the possibility of 900-plus satellite constellations being launched.now, we send satellites to different orbits depending on what they're needed for. one of the most common places we send satellites is the low earth orbit, possibly to image the surface of earth at up to about 2,000 kilometers altitude. satellites there are naturally buffeted by earth's atmosphere, so their orbits naturally decay, and they'll eventually burn up, probably within a couple of decades. another common place we send satellites is the geostationary orbit at about 35,000 kilometers altitude. satellites there remain in the same place above earth as the earth rotates, which enables things like communications or television broadcast, for example. satellites in high orbits like these could remain there for centuries. and then there's the orbit coined "the graveyard," the ominous junk or disposal orbits, where some satellites are intentionally placed at the end of their life so that they're out of the way of common operational orbits.of the nearly 7,000 satellites launched since the late 1950s, only about one in seven is currently operational, and in addition to the satellites that are no longer working, there's also hundreds of thousands of marble-sized debris and millions of paint chip-sized debris that are also orbiting around the earth. space debris is a major risk to space missions, but also to the satellites that we rely on each and every day.now, because space debris and junk has become increasingly worrisome, there have been some national and international efforts to develop technical standards to help us limit the generation of additional debris. so for example, there are recommendations for those low-earth orbiting spacecraft to be made to deorbit in under 25 years, but that's still a really long time, especially if a satellite hasn't been working for years. there's also mandates for those dead geostationary spacecraft to be moved into a graveyard orbit. but neither of these guidelines is binding under international law, and the understanding is that they will be implemented through national mechanisms. these guidelines are also not long-term, they're not proactive, nor do they address the debris that's already up there. they're only in place to limit the future creation of debris. space junk is no one's responsibility.now, mount everest is actually an interesting comparison of a new approach to how we interact with our environments, as it's often given the dubious honor of being the world's highest garbage dump. decades after the first conquest of the world's highest peak, tons of rubbish left behind by climbers has started to raise concern, and you may have read in the news that there's speculation that nepal will crack down on mountaineers with stricter enforcement of penalties and legal obligations. the goal, of course, is to persuade climbers to clean up after themselves, so maybe local not-for-profits will pay climbers who bring down extra waste, or expeditions might organize voluntary cleanup trips. and yet still many climbers feel that independent groups should police themselves. there's no simple or easy answer, and even well-intentioned efforts at conservation often run into problems. but that doesn't mean we shouldn't do everything in our power to protect the environments that we rely and depend on, and like everest, the remote location and inadequate infrastructure of the orbital environment make waste disposal a challenging problem. but we simply cannot reach new heights and create an even higher garbage dump, one that's out of this world.the reality of space is that if a component on a satellite breaks down, there really are limited opportunities for repairs, and only at great cost. but what if we were smarter about how we designed satellites? what if all satellites, regardless of what country they were built in, had to be standardized in some way for recycling, servicing or active deorbiting? what if there actually were international laws with teeth that enforced end-of-life disposal of satellites instead of moving them out of the way as a temporary solution? or maybe satellite manufacturers need to be charged a deposit to even launch a satellite into orbit, and that deposit would only be returned if the satellite was disposed of properly or if they cleaned up some quota of debris. or maybe a satellite needs to have technology on board to help accelerate deorbit.there are some encouraging signs. the uk's techdemosat-1, launched in 2014, for example, was designed for end-of-life disposal via a small drag sail. this works for the satellite because it's small, but satellites that are higher or in larger orbits or are larger altogether, like the size of school buses, will require other disposal options. so maybe you get into things like high-powered lasers or tugging using nets or tethers, as crazy as those sound in the short term.and then one really cool possibility is the idea of orbital tow trucks or space mechanics. imagine if a robotic arm on some sort of space tow truck could fix the broken components on a satellite, making them usable again. or what if that very same robotic arm could refuel the propellant tank on a spacecraft that relies on chemical propulsion just like you or i would refuel the fuel tanks on our cars? robotic repair and maintenance could extend the lives of hundreds of satellites orbiting around the earth.whatever the disposal or cleanup options we come up with, it's clearly not just a technical problem. there's also complex space laws and politics that we have to sort out. simply put, we haven't found a way to use space sustainably yet.exploring, innovating to change the way we live and work are what we as humans do, and in space exploration, we're literally moving beyond the boundaries of earth. but as we push thresholds in the name of learning and innovation, we must remember that accountability for our environments never goes away. there is without doubt congestion in the low earth and geostationary orbits, and we cannot keep launching new satellites to replace the ones that have broken down without doing something about them first, just like we would never leave a broken down car in the middle of the highway. next time you use your phone, check the weather or use your gps, think about the satellite technologies that make those activities possible. but also think about the very impact that the satellites have on the environment surrounding earth, and help spread the message that together we must reduce our impact.earth orbit is breathtakingly beautiful and our gateway to exploration. it's up to us to keep it that way.thank you. <title = "What I learned from 100 days of rejection">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'adventure', 'creativity', 'curiosity', 'entrepreneur', 'failure', 'fear', 'goal-setting', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'life', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'sociology', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Author, blogger, entrepreneur">
when i was six years old, i received my gifts. my first grade teacher had this brilliant idea. she wanted us to experience receiving gifts but also learning the virtue of complimenting each other. so she had all of us come to the front of the classroom, and she bought all of us gifts and stacked them in the corner. and she said, "why don't we just stand here and compliment each other? if you hear your name called, go and pick up your gift and sit down." what a wonderful idea, right? what could go wrong? well, there were 40 of us to start with, and every time i heard someone's name called, i would give out the heartiest cheer. and then there were 20 people left, and 10 people left, and five left ... and three left. and i was one of them. and the compliments stopped. well, at that moment, i was crying. and the teacher was freaking out. she was like, "hey, would anyone say anything nice about these people?" "no one? ok, why don't you go get your gift and sit down. so behave next year — someone might say something nice about you." well, as i'm describing this you, you probably know i remember this really well. but i don't know who felt worse that day. was it me or the teacher? she must have realized that she turned a team-building event into a public roast for three six-year-olds. and without the humor. you know, when you see people get roasted on tv, it was funny. there was nothing funny about that day.so that was one version of me, and i would die to avoid being in that situation again — to get rejected in public again. that's one version. then fast-forward eight years. bill gates came to my hometown — beijing, china — to speak, and i saw his message. i fell in love with that guy. i thought, wow, i know what i want to do now. that night i wrote a letter to my family telling them: "by age 25, i will build the biggest company in the world, and that company will buy microsoft." i totally embraced this idea of conquering the world — domination, right? and i didn't make this up, i did write that letter. and here it is — you don't have to read this through — this is also bad handwriting, but i did highlight some key words. you get the idea. so ... that was another version of me: one who will conquer the world.well, then two years later, i was presented with the opportunity to come to the united states. i jumped on it, because that was where bill gates lived, right? i thought that was the start of my entrepreneur journey. then, fast-forward another 14 years. i was 30. nope, i didn't build that company. i didn't even start. i was actually a marketing manager for a fortune 500 company. and i felt i was stuck; i was stagnant. why is that? where is that 14-year-old who wrote that letter? it's not because he didn't try. it's because every time i had a new idea, every time i wanted to try something new, even at work — i wanted to make a proposal, i wanted to speak up in front of people in a group — i felt there was this constant battle between the 14-year-old and the six-year-old. one wanted to conquer the world — make a difference — another was afraid of rejection. and every time that six-year-old won.and this fear even persisted after i started my own company. i mean, i started my own company when i was 30 — if you want to be bill gates, you've got to start sooner or later, right? when i was an entrepreneur, i was presented with an investment opportunity, and then i was turned down. and that rejection hurt me. it hurt me so bad that i wanted to quit right there. but then i thought, hey, would bill gates quit after a simple investment rejection? would any successful entrepreneur quit like that? no way. and this is where it clicked for me. ok, i can build a better company. i can build a better team or better product, but one thing for sure: i've got to be a better leader. i've got to be a better person. i cannot let that six-year-old keep dictating my life anymore. i have to put him back in his place.so this is where i went online and looked for help. google was my friend. i searched, "how do i overcome the fear of rejection?" i came up with a bunch of psychology articles about where the fear and pain are coming from. then i came up with a bunch of "rah-rah" inspirational articles about "don't take it personally, just overcome it." who doesn't know that? but why was i still so scared? then i found this website by luck. it's called rejectiontherapy.com. "rejection therapy" was this game invented by this canadian entrepreneur. his name is jason comely. and basically the idea is for 30 days you go out and look for rejection, and every day get rejected at something, and then by the end, you desensitize yourself from the pain. and i loved that idea. i said, "you know what? i'm going to do this. and i'll feel myself getting rejected 100 days." and i came up with my own rejection ideas, and i made a video blog out of it.and so here's what i did. this is what the blog looked like. day one ... borrow 100 dollars from a stranger. so this is where i went to where i was working. i came downstairs and i saw this big guy sitting behind a desk. he looked like a security guard. so i just approached him. and i was just walking and that was the longest walk of my life — hair on the back of my neck standing up, i was sweating and my heart was pounding. and i got there and said, "hey, sir, can i borrow 100 dollars from you?" and he looked up, he's like, "no." "why?"and i just said, "no? i'm sorry." then i turned around, and i just ran. i felt so embarrassed. but because i filmed myself — so that night i was watching myself getting rejected, i just saw how scared i was. i looked like this kid in "the sixth sense." i saw dead people. but then i saw this guy. you know, he wasn't that menacing. he was a chubby, loveable guy, and he even asked me, "why?" in fact, he invited me to explain myself. and i could've said many things. i could've explained, i could've negotiated. i didn't do any of that. all i did was run. i felt, wow, this is like a microcosm of my life. every time i felt the slightest rejection, i would just run as fast as i could. and you know what? the next day, no matter what happens, i'm not going to run. i'll stay engaged.day two: request a "burger refill." it's when i went to a burger joint, i finished lunch, and i went to the cashier and said, "hi, can i get a burger refill?" he was all confused, like, "what's a burger refill?" i said, "well, it's just like a drink refill but with a burger." and he said, "sorry, we don't do burger refill, man." so this is where rejection happened and i could have run, but i stayed. i said, "well, i love your burgers, i love your joint, and if you guys do a burger refill, i will love you guys more." and he said, "well, ok, i'll tell my manager about it, and maybe we'll do it, but sorry, we can't do this today." then i left. and by the way, i don't think they've ever done burger refill. i think they're still there. but the life and death feeling i was feeling the first time was no longer there, just because i stayed engaged — because i didn't run. i said, "wow, great, i'm already learning things. great."and then day three: getting olympic doughnuts. this is where my life was turned upside down. i went to a krispy kreme. it's a doughnut shop in mainly the southeastern part of the united states. i'm sure they have some here, too. and i went in, i said, "can you make me doughnuts that look like olympic symbols? basically, you interlink five doughnuts together ... " i mean there's no way they could say yes, right? the doughnut maker took me so seriously. so she put out paper, started jotting down the colors and the rings, and is like, "how can i make this?" and then 15 minutes later, she came out with a box that looked like olympic rings. and i was so touched. i just couldn't believe it. and that video got over five million views on youtube. the world couldn't believe that either. you know, because of that i was in newspapers, in talk shows, in everything. and i became famous. a lot of people started writing emails to me and saying, "what you're doing is awesome." but you know, fame and notoriety did not do anything to me. what i really wanted to do was learn, and to change myself. so i turned the rest of my 100 days of rejection into this playground — into this research project. i wanted to see what i could learn.and then i learned a lot of things. i discovered so many secrets. for example, i found if i just don't run, if i got rejected, i could actually turn a "no" into a "yes," and the magic word is, "why."so one day i went to a stranger's house, i had this flower in my hand, knocked on the door and said, "hey, can i plant this flower in your backyard?" and he said, "no." but before he could leave i said, "hey, can i know why?" and he said, "well, i have this dog that would dig up anything i put in the backyard. i don't want to waste your flower. if you want to do this, go across the street and talk to connie. she loves flowers." so that's what i did. i went across and knocked on connie's door. and she was so happy to see me. and then half an hour later, there was this flower in connie's backyard. i'm sure it looks better now. but had i left after the initial rejection, i would've thought, well, it's because the guy didn't trust me, it's because i was crazy, because i didn't dress up well, i didn't look good. it was none of those. it was because what i offered did not fit what he wanted. and he trusted me enough to offer me a referral, using a sales term. i converted a referral.then one day — and i also learned that i can actually say certain things and maximize my chance to get a yes. so for example, one day i went to a starbucks, and asked the manager, "hey, can i be a starbucks greeter?" he was like, "what's a starbucks greeter?" i said, "do you know those walmart greeters? you know, those people who say 'hi' to you before you walk in the store, and make sure you don't steal stuff, basically? i want to give a walmart experience to starbucks customers." well, i'm not sure that's a good thing, actually — actually, i'm pretty sure it's a bad thing. and he was like, "oh" — yeah, this is how he looked, his name is eric — and he was like, "i'm not sure." this is how he was hearing me. "not sure." then i ask him, "is that weird?" he's like, "yeah, it's really weird, man." but as soon as he said that, his whole demeanor changed. it's as if he's putting all the doubt on the floor. and he said, "yeah, you can do this, just don't get too weird." so for the next hour i was the starbucks greeter. i said "hi" to every customer that walked in, and gave them holiday cheers. by the way, i don't know what your career trajectory is, don't be a greeter. it was really boring. but then i found i could do this because i mentioned, "is that weird?" i mentioned the doubt that he was having. and because i mentioned, "is that weird?", that means i wasn't weird. that means i was actually thinking just like him, seeing this as a weird thing. and again, and again, i learned that if i mention some doubt people might have before i ask the question, i gained their trust. people were more likely to say yes to me.and then i learned i could fulfill my life dream ... by asking. you know, i came from four generations of teachers, and my grandma has always told me, "hey jia, you can do anything you want, but it'd be great if you became a teacher." but i wanted to be an entrepreneur, so i didn't. but it has always been my dream to actually teach something. so i said, "what if i just ask and teach a college class?" i lived in austin at the time, so i went to university of texas at austin and knocked on professors' doors and said, "can i teach your class?" i didn't get anywhere the first couple of times. but because i didn't run — i kept doing it — and on the third try the professor was very impressed. he was like, "no one has done this before." and i came in prepared with powerpoints and my lesson. he said, "wow, i can use this. why don't you come back in two months? i'll fit you in my curriculum." and two months later i was teaching a class.this is me — you probably can't see, this is a bad picture. you know, sometimes you get rejected by lighting, you know? but wow — when i finished teaching that class, i walked out crying, because i thought i could fulfill my life dream just by simply asking. i used to think i have to accomplish all these things — have to be a great entrepreneur, or get a phd to teach — but no, i just asked, and i could teach.and in that picture, which you can't see, i quoted martin luther king, jr. why? because in my research i found that people who really change the world, who change the way we live and the way we think, are the people who were met with initial and often violent rejections. people like martin luther king, jr., like mahatma gandhi, nelson mandela, or even jesus christ. these people did not let rejection define them. they let their own reaction after rejection define themselves. and they embraced rejection.and we don't have to be those people to learn about rejection, and in my case, rejection was my curse, was my boogeyman. it has bothered me my whole life because i was running away from it. then i started embracing it. i turned that into the biggest gift in my life. i started teaching people how to turn rejections into opportunities. i use my blog, i use my talk, i use the book i just published, and i'm even building technology to help people overcome their fear of rejection.when you get rejected in life, when you are facing the next obstacle or next failure, consider the possibilities. don't run. if you just embrace them, they might become your gifts as well.thank you. <title = "Say your truths and seek them in others">
<tags = "['aging', 'communication', 'compassion', 'death', 'empathy', 'family', 'health', 'humanity', 'life', 'relationships', 'vulnerability']">
<occupation = "Wellness specialist">
like many of us, i've had several careers in my life, and although they've been varied, my first job set the foundation for all of them. i was a home-birth midwife throughout my 20s. delivering babies taught me valuable and sometimes surprising things, like how to start a car at 2am. when it's 10 degrees below zero. or how to revive a father who's fainted at the sight of blood. or how to cut the umbilical cord just so, to make a beautiful belly button.but those aren't the things that stuck with me or guided me when i stopped being a midwife and started other jobs. what stuck with me was this bedrock belief that each one of us comes into this world with a unique worth. when i looked into the face of a newborn, i caught a glimpse of that worthiness, that sense of unapologetic selfhood, that unique spark. i use the word "soul" to describe that spark, because it's the only word in english that comes close to naming what each baby brought into the room.every newborn was as singular as a snowflake, a matchless mash-up of biology and ancestry and mystery. and then that baby grows up, and in order to fit into the family, to conform to the culture, to the community, to the gender, that little one begins to cover its soul, layer by layer. we're born this way, but — but as we grow, a lot of things happen to us that make us ... want to hide our soulful eccentricities and authenticity. we've all done this. everyone in this room is a former baby — with a distinctive birthright. but as adults, we spend so much of our time uncomfortable in our own skin, like we have add: authenticity deficit disorder. but not those babies — not yet. their message to me was: uncover your soul and look for that soul-spark in everyone else. it's still there.and here's what i learned from laboring women. their message was about staying open, even when things are painful. a woman's cervix normally looks like this. it's a tight little muscle at the base of the uterus. and during labor, it has to stretch from this to this. ouch! if you fight against that pain, you just create more pain, and you block what wants to be born.i'll never forget the magic that would happen when a woman stopped resisting the pain and opened. it was as if the forces of the universe took notice and sent in a wave of help. i never forgot that message, and now, when difficult or painful things happen to me in my life or my work, of course at first i resist them, but then i remember what i learned from the mothers: stay open. stay curious. ask the pain what it's come to deliver. something new wants to be born.and there was one more big soulful lesson, and that one i learned from albert einstein. he wasn't at any of the births, but — it was a lesson about time. at the end of his life, albert einstein concluded that our normal, hamster-wheel experience of life is an illusion. we run round and round, faster and faster, trying to get somewhere. and all the while, underneath surface time is this whole other dimension where the past and the present and the future merge and become deep time. and there's nowhere to get to.albert einstein called this state, this dimension, "only being." and he said when he experienced it, he knew sacred awe. when i was delivering babies, i was forced off the hamster wheel. sometimes i had to sit for days, hours and hours, just breathing with the parents; just being. and i got a big dose of sacred awe.so those are the three lessons i took with me from midwifery. one: uncover your soul. two: when things get difficult or painful, try to stay open. and three: every now and then, step off your hamster wheel into deep time.those lessons have served me throughout my life, but they really served me recently, when i took on the most important job of my life thus far.two years ago, my younger sister came out of remission from a rare blood cancer, and the only treatment left for her was a bone marrow transplant. and against the odds, we found a match for her, who turned out to be me. i come from a family of four girls, and when my sisters found out that i was my sister's perfect genetic match, their reaction was, "really? you?" "a perfect match for her?" which is pretty typical for siblings. in a sibling society, there's lots of things. there's love and there's friendship and there's protection. but there's also jealousy and competition and rejection and attack. in siblinghood, that's where we start assembling many of those first layers that cover our soul.when i discovered i was my sister's match, i went into research mode. and i discovered that the premise of transplants is pretty straightforward. you destroy all the bone marrow in the cancer patient with massive doses of chemotherapy, and then you replace that marrow with several million healthy marrow cells from a donor. and then you do everything you can to make sure that those new cells engraft in the patient. i also learned that bone marrow transplants are fraught with danger. if my sister made it through the near-lethal chemotherapy, she still would face other challenges. my cells might attack her body. and her body might reject my cells. they call this rejection or attack, and both could kill her.rejection. attack. those words had a familiar ring in the context of being siblings. my sister and i had a long history of love, but we also had a long history of rejection and attack, from minor misunderstandings to bigger betrayals. we didn't have the kind of the relationship where we talked about the deeper stuff; but, like many siblings and like people in all kinds of relationships, we were hesitant to tell our truths, to reveal our wounds, to admit our wrongdoings.but when i learned about the dangers of rejection or attack, i thought, it's time to change this. what if we left the bone marrow transplant up to the doctors, but did something that we later came to call our "soul marrow transplant?" what if we faced any pain we had caused each other, and instead of rejection or attack, could we listen? could we forgive? could we merge? would that teach our cells to do the same?to woo my skeptical sister, i turned to my parents' holy text: the new yorker magazine. i sent her a cartoon from its pages as a way of explaining why we should visit a therapist before having my bone marrow harvested and transplanted into her body. here it is."i have never forgiven him for that thing i made up in my head." i told my sister we had probably been doing the same thing, carting around made-up stories in our heads that kept us separate. and i told her that after the transplant, all of the blood flowing in her veins would be my blood, made from my marrow cells, and that inside the nucleus of each of those cells is a complete set of my dna. "i will be swimming around in you for the rest of your life," i told my slightly horrified sister. "i think we better clean up our relationship."a health crisis makes people do all sorts of risky things, like quitting a job or jumping out of an airplane and, in the case of my sister, saying "yes" to several therapy sessions, during which we got down to the marrow. we looked at and released years of stories and assumptions about each other and blame and shame until all that was left was love.people have said i was brave to undergo the bone marrow harvest, but i don't think so. what felt brave to me was that other kind of harvest and transplant, the soul marrow transplant, getting emotionally naked with another human being, putting aside pride and defensiveness, lifting the layers and sharing with each other our vulnerable souls. i called on those midwife lessons: uncover your soul. open to what's scary and painful. look for the sacred awe.here i am with my marrow cells after the harvest. that's they call it — "harvest," like it's some kind of bucolic farm-to-table event — which i can assure you it is not. and here is my brave, brave sister receiving my cells. after the transplant, we began to spend more and more time together. it was as if we were little girls again. the past and the present merged. we entered deep time. i left the hamster wheel of work and life to join my sister on that lonely island of illness and healing. we spent months together — in the isolation unit, in the hospital and in her home.our fast-paced society does not support or even value this kind of work. we see it as a disruption of real life and important work. we worry about the emotional drain and the financial cost — and, yes, there is a financial cost. but i was paid in the kind of currency our culture seems to have forgotten all about. i was paid in love. i was paid in soul. i was paid in my sister.my sister said the year after transplant was the best year of her life, which was surprising. she suffered so much. but she said life never tasted as sweet, and that because of the soul-baring and the truth-telling we had done with each other, she became more unapologetically herself with everyone. she said things she'd always needed to say. she did things she always wanted to do. the same happened for me. i became braver about being authentic with the people in my life. i said my truths, but more important than that, i sought the truth of others.it wasn't until the final chapter of this story that i realized just how well midwifery had trained me. after that best year of my sister's life, the cancer came roaring back, and this time there was nothing more the doctors could do. they gave her just a couple of months to live.the night before my sister died, i sat by her bedside. she was so small and thin. i could see the blood pulsing in her neck. it was my blood, her blood, our blood. when she died, part of me would die, too.i tried to make sense of it all, how becoming one with each other had made us more ourselves, our soul selves, and how by facing and opening to the pain of our past, we'd finally been delivered to each other, and how by stepping out of time, we would now be connected forever.my sister left me with so many things, and i'm going to leave you now with just one of them. you don't have to wait for a life-or-death situation to clean up the relationships that matter to you, to offer the marrow of your soul and to seek it in another. we can all do this. we can be like a new kind of first responder, like the one to take the first courageous step toward the other, and to do something or try to do something other than rejection or attack. we can do this with our siblings and our mates and our friends and our colleagues. we can do this with the disconnection and the discord all around us. we can do this for the soul of the world.thank you. <title = "Do kids think of sperm donors as family?">
<tags = "['Bioethics', 'TEDx', 'biology', 'children', 'communication', 'creativity', 'family', 'genetics', 'humanity', 'identity', 'parenting']">
<occupation = "Bioethicist">
what is a parent?what is a parent?it's not an easy question. today we have adoption, stepfamilies, surrogate mothers. many parents face tough questions and tough decisions. shall we tell our child about the sperm donation? if so, when? what words to use? sperm donors are often referred to as "biological fathers," but should we really be using the word "father?"as a philosopher and social scientist, i have been studying these questions about the concept of parenthood. but today, i will talk to you about what i learned from talking to parents and children. i will show you that they know what matters most in a family, even though their family looks a little different. i will show you their creative ways of dealing with tough questions. but i will also show you the parents' uncertainties.we interviewed couples who received fertility treatment at ghent university hospital, using sperm from a donor. in this treatment timeline, you can see two points at which we conducted interviews. we included heterosexual couples, where the man for some reason did not have good-quality sperm, and lesbian couples who obviously needed to find sperm elsewhere. we also included children. i wanted to know how those children define concepts like parenthood and family. in fact, that is what i asked them, only not in that way. i drew an apple tree instead. this way, i could ask abstract, philosophical questions in a way that did not make them run off.so as you can see, the apple tree is empty. and that illustrates my research approach. by designing techniques like this, i can bring as little meaning and content as possible to the interview, because i want to hear that from them.i asked them: what would your family look like if it were an apple tree? and they could take a paper apple for everyone who, in their view, was a member of the family, write a name on it and hang it wherever they wanted. and i would ask questions. most children started with a parent or a sibling. one started with "boxer," the dead dog of his grandparents.at this point, none of the children started mentioning the donor. so, i asked them about their birth story. i said, "before you were born, it was just your mom and dad, or mom and mommy. can you tell me how you came into the family?" and they explained. one said, "my parents did not have good seeds, but there are friendly men out there who have spare seeds. they bring them to the hospital, and they put them in a big jar. my mommy went there, and she took two from the jar, one for me and one for my sister. she put the seeds in her belly — somehow — and her belly grew really big, and there i was."hmm. so only when they started mentioning the donor, i asked questions about him, using their own words. i said, "if this would be an apple for the friendly man with the seeds, what would you do with it?" and one boy was thinking out loud, holding the apple. and he said, "i won't put this one up there with the others. he's not part of my family. but i will not put him on the ground. that's too cold and too hard. i think he should be in the trunk, because he made my family possible. if he would not have done this, that would really be sad because my family would not be here, and i would not be here."so also, parents constructed family tales — tales to tell their children. one couple explained their insemination by taking their children to a farm to watch a vet inseminate cows. and why not? it's their way of explaining; their do-it-yourself with family narratives. diy. and we had another couple who made books — a book for each child. they were really works of art containing their thoughts and feelings throughout the treatment. they even had the hospital parking tickets in there.so it is diy: finding ways, words and images to tell your family story to your child. and these stories were highly diverse, but they all had one thing in common: it was a tale of longing for a child and a quest for that child. it was about how special and how deeply loved their child was. and research so far shows that these children are doing fine. they do not have more problems than other kids.yet, these parents also wanted to justify their decisions through the tales they tell. they hoped that their children would understand their reasons for making the family in this way. underlying was a fear that their children might disapprove and would reject the non-genetic parent. and that fear is understandable, because we live in a very heteronormative and geneticized society — a world that still believes that true families consist of one mom, one dad and their genetically related children.well. i want to tell you about a teenage boy. he was donor-conceived but not part of our study. one day, he had an argument with his father, and he yelled, "you're telling me what to do? you're not even my father!" that was exactly what the parents in our study feared. now, the boy soon felt sorry, and they made up. but it is the reaction of his father that is most interesting.he said, "this outburst had nothing to do with the lack of a genetic link. it was about puberty — being difficult. it's what they do at that age. it will pass."what this man shows us is that when something goes wrong, we should not immediately think it is because the family is a little different. these things happen in all families. and every now and then, all parents may wonder: am i a good enough parent? these parents, too. they, above all, wanted to do what's best for their child. but they also sometimes wondered: am i a real parent? and their uncertainties were present long before they even were parents.at the start of treatment, when they first saw the counselor, they paid close attention to the counselor, because they wanted to do it right. even 10 years later, they still remember the advice they were given.so when they thought about the counselor and the advice they were given, we discussed that. and we saw one lesbian couple who said, "when our son asks us, 'do i have a dad?' we will say 'no, you do not have a dad.' but we will say nothing more, not unless he asks, because he might not be ready for that. the counselor said so."well. i don't know; that's quite different from how we respond to children's questions. like, "milk — is that made in a factory?" we will say, "no, it comes from cows," and we will talk about the farmer, and the way the milk ends up in the shop. we will not say, "no, milk is not made in a factory." so something strange happened here, and of course these children noticed that.one boy said, "i asked my parents loads of questions, but they acted really weird. so, you know, i have a friend at school, and she's made in the same way. when i have a question, i just go and ask her." clever guy. problem solved. but his parents did not notice, and it certainly was not what they had in mind, nor what the counselor had in mind when they were saying how important it is to be an open-communication family.and that's the strange thing about advice. when we offer people pills, we gather evidence first. we do tests, we do follow-up studies. we want to know, and rightly so, what this pill is doing and how it affects people's lives. and advice? it is not enough for advice, or for professionals to give advice that is theoretically sound, or well-meant. it should be advice that there is evidence for — evidence that it actually improves patients' lives.so the philosopher in me would now like to offer you a paradox: i advise you to stop following advice. but, yes. i will not end here with what went wrong; i would not be doing justice to the warmth we found in those families. remember the books and the trip to the farmer? when parents do things that work for them, they do brilliant things. what i want you to remember as members of families, in no matter what form or shape, is that what families need are warm relationships. and we do not need to be professionals to create those. most of us do just fine, although it may be hard work, and from time to time, we can do with some advice.in that case, bear in mind three things. work with advice that works for your family. remember — you're the expert, because you live your family life. and finally, believe in your abilities and your creativity, because you can do it yourself.thank you. <title = "Why curiosity is the key to science and medicine">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'cancer', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'death', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'illness', 'life', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'science']">
<occupation = "Cancer researcher">
science. the very word for many of you conjures unhappy memories of boredom in high school biology or physics class. but let me assure that what you did there had very little to do with science. that was really the "what" of science. it was the history of what other people had discovered. what i'm most interested in as a scientist is the "how" of science. because science is knowledge in process. we make an observation, guess an explanation for that observation, and then make a prediction that we can test with an experiment or other observation.a couple of examples. first of all, people noticed that the earth was below, the sky above, and both the sun and the moon seemed to go around them. their guessed explanation was that the earth must be the center of the universe. the prediction: everything should circle around the earth. this was first really tested when galileo got his hands on one of the first telescopes, and as he gazed into the night sky, what he found there was a planet, jupiter, with four moons circling around it. he then used those moons to follow the path of jupiter and found that jupiter also was not going around the earth but around the sun. so the prediction test failed. and this led to the discarding of the theory that the earth was the center of the universe.another example: sir isaac newton noticed that things fall to the earth. the guessed explanation was gravity, the prediction that everything should fall to the earth. but of course, not everything does fall to the earth. so did we discard gravity? no. we revised the theory and said, gravity pulls things to the earth unless there is an equal and opposite force in the other direction. this led us to learn something new. we began to pay more attention to the bird and the bird's wings, and just think of all the discoveries that have flown from that line of thinking. so the test failures, the exceptions, the outliers teach us what we don't know and lead us to something new. this is how science moves forward. this is how science learns.sometimes in the media, and even more rarely, but sometimes even scientists will say that something or other has been scientifically proven. but i hope that you understand that science never proves anything definitively forever. hopefully science remains curious enough to look for and humble enough to recognize when we have found the next outlier, the next exception, which, like jupiter's moons, teaches us what we don't actually know.we're going to change gears here for a second. the caduceus, or the symbol of medicine, means a lot of different things to different people, but most of our public discourse on medicine really turns it into an engineering problem. we have the hallways of congress, and the boardrooms of insurance companies that try to figure out how to pay for it. the ethicists and epidemiologists try to figure out how best to distribute medicine, and the hospitals and physicians are absolutely obsessed with their protocols and checklists, trying to figure out how best to safely apply medicine. these are all good things. however, they also all assume at some level that the textbook of medicine is closed. we start to measure the quality of our health care by how quickly we can access it. it doesn't surprise me that in this climate, many of our institutions for the provision of health care start to look a heck of a lot like jiffy lube. the only problem is that when i graduated from medical school, i didn't get one of those little doohickeys that your mechanic has to plug into your car and find out exactly what's wrong with it, because the textbook of medicine is not closed. medicine is science. medicine is knowledge in process. we make an observation, we guess an explanation of that observation, and then we make a prediction that we can test. now, the testing ground of most predictions in medicine is populations. and you may remember from those boring days in biology class that populations tend to distribute around a mean as a gaussian or a normal curve. therefore, in medicine, after we make a prediction from a guessed explanation, we test it in a population. that means that what we know in medicine, our knowledge and our know-how, comes from populations but extends only as far as the next outlier, the next exception, which, like jupiter's moons, will teach us what we don't actually know.now, i am a surgeon who looks after patients with sarcoma. sarcoma is a very rare form of cancer. it's the cancer of flesh and bones. and i would tell you that every one of my patients is an outlier, is an exception. there is no surgery i have ever performed for a sarcoma patient that has ever been guided by a randomized controlled clinical trial, what we consider the best kind of population-based evidence in medicine. people talk about thinking outside the box, but we don't even have a box in sarcoma. what we do have as we take a bath in the uncertainty and unknowns and exceptions and outliers that surround us in sarcoma is easy access to what i think are those two most important values for any science: humility and curiosity. because if i am humble and curious, when a patient asks me a question, and i don't know the answer, i'll ask a colleague who may have a similar albeit distinct patient with sarcoma. we'll even establish international collaborations. those patients will start to talk to each other through chat rooms and support groups. it's through this kind of humbly curious communication that we begin to try and learn new things.as an example, this is a patient of mine who had a cancer near his knee. because of humbly curious communication in international collaborations, we have learned that we can repurpose the ankle to serve as the knee when we have to remove the knee with the cancer. he can then wear a prosthetic and run and jump and play. this opportunity was available to him because of international collaborations. it was desirable to him because he had contacted other patients who had experienced it. and so exceptions and outliers in medicine teach us what we don't know, but also lead us to new thinking.now, very importantly, all the new thinking that outliers and exceptions lead us to in medicine does not only apply to the outliers and exceptions. it is not that we only learn from sarcoma patients ways to manage sarcoma patients. sometimes, the outliers and the exceptions teach us things that matter quite a lot to the general population. like a tree standing outside a forest, the outliers and the exceptions draw our attention and lead us into a much greater sense of perhaps what a tree is. we often talk about losing the forests for the trees, but one also loses a tree within a forest. but the tree that stands out by itself makes those relationships that define a tree, the relationships between trunk and roots and branches, much more apparent. even if that tree is crooked or even if that tree has very unusual relationships between trunk and roots and branches, it nonetheless draws our attention and allows us to make observations that we can then test in the general population.i told you that sarcomas are rare. they make up about one percent of all cancers. you also probably know that cancer is considered a genetic disease. by genetic disease we mean that cancer is caused by oncogenes that are turned on in cancer and tumor suppressor genes that are turned off to cause cancer. you might think that we learned about oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes from common cancers like breast cancer and prostate cancer and lung cancer, but you'd be wrong. we learned about oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes for the first time in that itty-bitty little one percent of cancers called sarcoma. in 1966, peyton rous got the nobel prize for realizing that chickens had a transmissible form of sarcoma. thirty years later, harold varmus and mike bishop discovered what that transmissible element was. it was a virus carrying a gene, the src oncogene. now, i will not tell you that src is the most important oncogene. i will not tell you that src is the most frequently turned on oncogene in all of cancer. but it was the first oncogene. the exception, the outlier drew our attention and led us to something that taught us very important things about the rest of biology.now, tp53 is the most important tumor suppressor gene. it is the most frequently turned off tumor suppressor gene in almost every kind of cancer. but we didn't learn about it from common cancers. we learned about it when doctors li and fraumeni were looking at families, and they realized that these families had way too many sarcomas. i told you that sarcoma is rare. remember that a one in a million diagnosis, if it happens twice in one family, is way too common in that family. the very fact that these are rare draws our attention and leads us to new kinds of thinking.now, many of you may say, and may rightly say, that yeah, kevin, that's great, but you're not talking about a bird's wing. you're not talking about moons floating around some planet jupiter. this is a person. this outlier, this exception, may lead to the advancement of science, but this is a person. and all i can say is that i know that all too well. i have conversations with these patients with rare and deadly diseases. i write about these conversations. these conversations are terribly fraught. they're fraught with horrible phrases like "i have bad news" or "there's nothing more we can do." sometimes these conversations turn on a single word: "terminal."silence can also be rather uncomfortable. where the blanks are in medicine can be just as important as the words that we use in these conversations. what are the unknowns? what are the experiments that are being done?do this little exercise with me. up there on the screen, you see this phrase, "no where." notice where the blank is. if we move that blank one space over "no where" becomes "now here," the exact opposite meaning, just by shifting the blank one space over.i'll never forget the night that i walked into one of my patients' rooms. i had been operating long that day but i still wanted to come and see him. he was a boy i had diagnosed with a bone cancer a few days before. he and his mother had been meeting with the chemotherapy doctors earlier that day, and he had been admitted to the hospital to begin chemotherapy. it was almost midnight when i got to his room. he was asleep, but i found his mother reading by flashlight next to his bed. she came out in the hall to chat with me for a few minutes. it turned out that what she had been reading was the protocol that the chemotherapy doctors had given her that day. she had memorized it. she said, "dr. jones, you told me that we don't always win with this type of cancer, but i've been studying this protocol, and i think i can do it. i think i can comply with these very difficult treatments. i'm going to quit my job. i'm going to move in with my parents. i'm going to keep my baby safe." i didn't tell her. i didn't stop to correct her thinking. she was trusting in a protocol that even if complied with, wouldn't necessarily save her son. i didn't tell her. i didn't fill in that blank. but a year and a half later her boy nonetheless died of his cancer. should i have told her?now, many of you may say, "so what? i don't have sarcoma. no one in my family has sarcoma. and this is all fine and well, but it probably doesn't matter in my life." and you're probably right. sarcoma may not matter a whole lot in your life. but where the blanks are in medicine does matter in your life.i didn't tell you one dirty little secret. i told you that in medicine, we test predictions in populations, but i didn't tell you, and so often medicine never tells you that every time an individual encounters medicine, even if that individual is firmly embedded in the general population, neither the individual nor the physician knows where in that population the individual will land. therefore, every encounter with medicine is an experiment. you will be a subject in an experiment. and the outcome will be either a better or a worse result for you. as long as medicine works well, we're fine with fast service, bravado, brimmingly confident conversations. but when things don't work well, sometimes we want something different.a colleague of mine removed a tumor from a patient's limb. he was concerned about this tumor. in our physician conferences, he talked about his concern that this was a type of tumor that had a high risk for coming back in the same limb. but his conversations with the patient were exactly what a patient might want: brimming with confidence. he said, "i got it all and you're good to go." she and her husband were thrilled. they went out, celebrated, fancy dinner, opened a bottle of champagne. the only problem was a few weeks later, she started to notice another nodule in the same area. it turned out he hadn't gotten it all, and she wasn't good to go. but what happened at this juncture absolutely fascinates me. my colleague came to me and said, "kevin, would you mind looking after this patient for me?" i said, "why, you know the right thing to do as well as i do. you haven't done anything wrong." he said, "please, just look after this patient for me." he was embarrassed — not by what he had done, but by the conversation that he had had, by the overconfidence.so i performed a much more invasive surgery and had a very different conversation with the patient afterwards. i said, "most likely i've gotten it all and you're most likely good to go, but this is the experiment that we're doing. this is what you're going to watch for. this is what i'm going to watch for. and we're going to work together to find out if this surgery will work to get rid of your cancer." i can guarantee you, she and her husband did not crack another bottle of champagne after talking to me. but she was now a scientist, not only a subject in her experiment.and so i encourage you to seek humility and curiosity in your physicians. almost 20 billion times each year, a person walks into a doctor's office, and that person becomes a patient. you or someone you love will be that patient sometime very soon. how will you talk to your doctors? what will you tell them? what will they tell you? they cannot tell you what they do not know, but they can tell you when they don't know if only you'll ask. so please, join the conversation.thank you. <title = "How AI can bring on a second Industrial Revolution">
<tags = "['AI', 'Internet', 'algorithm', 'business', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'data', 'decision-making', 'driverless cars', 'future', 'humanity', 'industrial design', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'invention', 'machine learning', 'mind', 'robots', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Digital visionary">
i'm going to talk a little bit about where technology's going. and often technology comes to us, we're surprised by what it brings. but there's actually a large aspect of technology that's much more predictable, and that's because technological systems of all sorts have leanings, they have urgencies, they have tendencies. and those tendencies are derived from the very nature of the physics, chemistry of wires and switches and electrons, and they will make reoccurring patterns again and again. and so those patterns produce these tendencies, these leanings.you can almost think of it as sort of like gravity. imagine raindrops falling into a valley. the actual path of a raindrop as it goes down the valley is unpredictable. we cannot see where it's going, but the general direction is very inevitable: it's downward. and so these baked-in tendencies and urgencies in technological systems give us a sense of where things are going at the large form. so in a large sense, i would say that telephones were inevitable, but the iphone was not. the internet was inevitable, but twitter was not.so we have many ongoing tendencies right now, and i think one of the chief among them is this tendency to make things smarter and smarter. i call it cognifying — cognification — also known as artificial intelligence, or ai. and i think that's going to be one of the most influential developments and trends and directions and drives in our society in the next 20 years.so, of course, it's already here. we already have ai, and often it works in the background, in the back offices of hospitals, where it's used to diagnose x-rays better than a human doctor. it's in legal offices, where it's used to go through legal evidence better than a human paralawyer. it's used to fly the plane that you came here with. human pilots only flew it seven to eight minutes, the rest of the time the ai was driving. and of course, in netflix and amazon, it's in the background, making those recommendations. that's what we have today.and we have an example, of course, in a more front-facing aspect of it, with the win of the alphago, who beat the world's greatest go champion. but it's more than that. if you play a video game, you're playing against an ai. but recently, google taught their ai to actually learn how to play video games. again, teaching video games was already done, but learning how to play a video game is another step. that's artificial smartness. what we're doing is taking this artificial smartness and we're making it smarter and smarter.there are three aspects to this general trend that i think are underappreciated; i think we would understand ai a lot better if we understood these three things. i think these things also would help us embrace ai, because it's only by embracing it that we actually can steer it. we can actually steer the specifics by embracing the larger trend.so let me talk about those three different aspects. the first one is: our own intelligence has a very poor understanding of what intelligence is. we tend to think of intelligence as a single dimension, that it's kind of like a note that gets louder and louder. it starts like with iq measurement. it starts with maybe a simple low iq in a rat or mouse, and maybe there's more in a chimpanzee, and then maybe there's more in a stupid person, and then maybe an average person like myself, and then maybe a genius. and this single iq intelligence is getting greater and greater. that's completely wrong. that's not what intelligence is — not what human intelligence is, anyway. it's much more like a symphony of different notes, and each of these notes is played on a different instrument of cognition.there are many types of intelligences in our own minds. we have deductive reasoning, we have emotional intelligence, we have spatial intelligence; we have maybe 100 different types that are all grouped together, and they vary in different strengths with different people. and of course, if we go to animals, they also have another basket — another symphony of different kinds of intelligences, and sometimes those same instruments are the same that we have. they can think in the same way, but they may have a different arrangement, and maybe they're higher in some cases than humans, like long-term memory in a squirrel is actually phenomenal, so it can remember where it buried its nuts. but in other cases they may be lower.when we go to make machines, we're going to engineer them in the same way, where we'll make some of those types of smartness much greater than ours, and many of them won't be anywhere near ours, because they're not needed. so we're going to take these things, these artificial clusters, and we'll be adding more varieties of artificial cognition to our ais. we're going to make them very, very specific.so your calculator is smarter than you are in arithmetic already; your gps is smarter than you are in spatial navigation; google, bing, are smarter than you are in long-term memory. and we're going to take, again, these kinds of different types of thinking and we'll put them into, like, a car. the reason why we want to put them in a car so the car drives, is because it's not driving like a human. it's not thinking like us. that's the whole feature of it. it's not being distracted, it's not worrying about whether it left the stove on, or whether it should have majored in finance. it's just driving. just driving, ok? and we actually might even come to advertise these as "consciousness-free." they're without consciousness, they're not concerned about those things, they're not distracted.so in general, what we're trying to do is make as many different types of thinking as we can. we're going to populate the space of all the different possible types, or species, of thinking. and there actually may be some problems that are so difficult in business and science that our own type of human thinking may not be able to solve them alone. we may need a two-step program, which is to invent new kinds of thinking that we can work alongside of to solve these really large problems, say, like dark energy or quantum gravity.what we're doing is making alien intelligences. you might even think of this as, sort of, artificial aliens in some senses. and they're going to help us think different, because thinking different is the engine of creation and wealth and new economy.the second aspect of this is that we are going to use ai to basically make a second industrial revolution. the first industrial revolution was based on the fact that we invented something i would call artificial power. previous to that, during the agricultural revolution, everything that was made had to be made with human muscle or animal power. that was the only way to get anything done. the great innovation during the industrial revolution was, we harnessed steam power, fossil fuels, to make this artificial power that we could use to do anything we wanted to do. so today when you drive down the highway, you are, with a flick of the switch, commanding 250 horses — 250 horsepower — which we can use to build skyscrapers, to build cities, to build roads, to make factories that would churn out lines of chairs or refrigerators way beyond our own power. and that artificial power can also be distributed on wires on a grid to every home, factory, farmstead, and anybody could buy that artificial power, just by plugging something in.so this was a source of innovation as well, because a farmer could take a manual hand pump, and they could add this artificial power, this electricity, and he'd have an electric pump. and you multiply that by thousands or tens of thousands of times, and that formula was what brought us the industrial revolution. all the things that we see, all this progress that we now enjoy, has come from the fact that we've done that.we're going to do the same thing now with ai. we're going to distribute that on a grid, and now you can take that electric pump. you can add some artificial intelligence, and now you have a smart pump. and that, multiplied by a million times, is going to be this second industrial revolution. so now the car is going down the highway, it's 250 horsepower, but in addition, it's 250 minds. that's the auto-driven car. it's like a new commodity; it's a new utility. the ai is going to flow across the grid — the cloud — in the same way electricity did.so everything that we had electrified, we're now going to cognify. and i would suggest, then, that the formula for the next 10,000 start-ups is very, very simple, which is to take x and add ai. that is the formula, that's what we're going to be doing. and that is the way in which we're going to make this second industrial revolution. and by the way — right now, this minute, you can log on to google and you can purchase ai for six cents, 100 hits. that's available right now.so the third aspect of this is that when we take this ai and embody it, we get robots. and robots are going to be bots, they're going to be doing many of the tasks that we have already done. a job is just a bunch of tasks, so they're going to redefine our jobs because they're going to do some of those tasks. but they're also going to create whole new categories, a whole new slew of tasks that we didn't know we wanted to do before. they're going to actually engender new kinds of jobs, new kinds of tasks that we want done, just as automation made up a whole bunch of new things that we didn't know we needed before, and now we can't live without them. so they're going to produce even more jobs than they take away, but it's important that a lot of the tasks that we're going to give them are tasks that can be defined in terms of efficiency or productivity. if you can specify a task, either manual or conceptual, that can be specified in terms of efficiency or productivity, that goes to the bots. productivity is for robots. what we're really good at is basically wasting time. we're really good at things that are inefficient. science is inherently inefficient. it runs on that fact that you have one failure after another. it runs on the fact that you make tests and experiments that don't work, otherwise you're not learning. it runs on the fact that there is not a lot of efficiency in it. innovation by definition is inefficient, because you make prototypes, because you try stuff that fails, that doesn't work. exploration is inherently inefficiency. art is not efficient. human relationships are not efficient. these are all the kinds of things we're going to gravitate to, because they're not efficient. efficiency is for robots. we're also going to learn that we're going to work with these ais because they think differently than us.when deep blue beat the world's best chess champion, people thought it was the end of chess. but actually, it turns out that today, the best chess champion in the world is not an ai. and it's not a human. it's the team of a human and an ai. the best medical diagnostician is not a doctor, it's not an ai, it's the team. we're going to be working with these ais, and i think you'll be paid in the future by how well you work with these bots. so that's the third thing, is that they're different, they're utility and they are going to be something we work with rather than against. we're working with these rather than against them.so, the future: where does that take us? i think that 25 years from now, they'll look back and look at our understanding of ai and say, "you didn't have ai. in fact, you didn't even have the internet yet, compared to what we're going to have 25 years from now." there are no ai experts right now. there's a lot of money going to it, there are billions of dollars being spent on it; it's a huge business, but there are no experts, compared to what we'll know 20 years from now. so we are just at the beginning of the beginning, we're in the first hour of all this. we're in the first hour of the internet. we're in the first hour of what's coming. the most popular ai product in 20 years from now, that everybody uses, has not been invented yet. that means that you're not late.thank you. <title = "Could a drug prevent depression and PTSD?">
<tags = "['PTSD', 'TEDx', 'brain', 'chemistry', 'depression', 'happiness', 'health', 'health care', 'history', 'humanity', 'illness', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'mental health', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'pharmaceuticals', 'science']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist, writer, entrepreneur">
this is a tuberculosis ward, and at the time this picture was taken in the late 1800s, one in seven of all people died from tuberculosis. we had no idea what was causing this disease. the hypothesis was actually it was your constitution that made you susceptible. and it was a highly romanticized disease. it was also called consumption, and it was the disorder of poets and artists and intellectuals. and some people actually thought it gave you heightened sensitivity and conferred creative genius.by the 1950s, we instead knew that tuberculosis was caused by a highly contagious bacterial infection, which is slightly less romantic, but that had the upside of us being able to maybe develop drugs to treat it. so doctors had discovered a new drug, iproniazid, that they were optimistic might cure tuberculosis, and they gave it to patients, and patients were elated. they were more social, more energetic. one medical report actually says they were "dancing in the halls." and unfortunately, this was not necessarily because they were getting better. a lot of them were still dying. another medical report describes them as being "inappropriately happy." and that is how the first antidepressant was discovered.so accidental discovery is not uncommon in science, but it requires more than just a happy accident. you have to be able to recognize it for discovery to occur.as a neuroscientist, i'm going to talk to you a little bit about my firsthand experience with whatever you want to call the opposite of dumb luck — let's call it smart luck. but first, a bit more background.thankfully, since the 1950s, we've developed some other drugs and we can actually now cure tuberculosis. and at least in the united states, though not necessarily in other countries, we have closed our sanitoriums and probably most of you are not too worried about tb. but a lot of what was true in the early 1900s about infectious disease, we can say now about psychiatric disorders.we are in the middle of an epidemic of mood disorders like depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, or ptsd. one in four of all adults in the united states suffers from mental illness, which means that if you haven't experienced it personally or someone in your family hasn't, it's still very likely that someone you know has, though they may not talk about it. depression has actually now surpassed hiv/aids, malaria, diabetes and war as the leading cause of disability worldwide. and also, like tuberculosis in the 1950s, we don't know what causes it. once it's developed, it's chronic, lasts a lifetime, and there are no known cures.the second antidepressant we discovered, also by accident, in the 1950s, from an antihistamine that was making people manic, imipramine. and in both the case of the tuberculosis ward and the antihistamine, someone had to be able to recognize that a drug that was designed to do one thing — treat tuberculosis or suppress allergies — could be used to do something very different — treat depression. and this sort of repurposing is actually quite challenging. when doctors first saw this mood-enhancing effect of iproniazid, they didn't really recognize what they saw. they were so used to thinking about it from the framework of being a tuberculosis drug that they actually just listed it as a side effect, an adverse side effect.as you can see here, a lot of these patients in 1954 are experiencing severe euphoria. and they were worried that this might somehow interfere with their recovering from tuberculosis. so they recommended that iproniazid only be used in cases of extreme tb and in patients that were highly emotionally stable, which is of course the exact opposite of how we use it as an antidepressant. they were so used to looking at it from the perspective of this one disease, they could not see the larger implications for another disease.and to be fair, it's not entirely their fault. functional fixedness is a bias that affects all of us. it's a tendency to only be able to think of an object in terms of its traditional use or function. and mental set is another thing. right? that's sort of this preconceived framework with which we approach problems. and that actually makes repurposing pretty hard for all of us, which is, i guess, why they gave a tv show to the guy who was, like, really great at repurposing. so the effects in both the case of iproniazid and imipramine, they were so strong — there was mania, or people dancing in the halls. it's actually not that surprising they were caught. but it does make you wonder what else we've missed. so iproniazid and imipramine, they're more than just a case study in repurposing. they have two other things in common that are really important. one, they have terrible side effects. that includes liver toxicity, weight gain of over 50 pounds, suicidality. and two, they both increase levels of serotonin, which is a chemical signal in the brain, or a neurotransmitter. and those two things together, right, one or the two, may not have been that important, but the two together meant that we had to develop safer drugs, and that serotonin seemed like a pretty good place to start.so we developed drugs to more specifically focus on serotonin, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, so the ssris, the most famous of which is prozac. and that was 30 years ago, and since then we have mostly just worked on optimizing those drugs. and the ssris, they are better than the drugs that came before them, but they still have a lot of side effects, including weight gain, insomnia, suicidality — and they take a really long time to work, something like four to six weeks in a lot of patients. and that's in the patients where they do work. there are a lot of patients where these drugs don't work.and that means now, in 2016, we still have no cures for any mood disorders, just drugs that suppress symptoms, which is kind of the difference between taking a painkiller for an infection versus an antibiotic. a painkiller will make you feel better, but is not going to do anything to treat that underlying disease. and it was this flexibility in our thinking that let us recognize that iproniazid and imipramine could be repurposed in this way, which led us to the serotonin hypothesis, which we then, ironically, fixated on. this is brain signaling, serotonin, from an ssri commercial. in case you're not clear, this is a dramatization. and in science, we try and remove our bias, right, by running double-blinded experiments or being statistically agnostic as to what our results will be. but bias creeps in more insidiously in what we choose to study and how we choose to study it.so we've focused on serotonin now for the past 30 years, often to the exclusion of other things. we still have no cures, and what if serotonin isn't all there is to depression? what if it's not even the key part of it? that means no matter how much time or money or effort we put into it, it will never lead to a cure.in the past few years, doctors have discovered probably what is the first truly new antidepressant since the ssris, calypsol, and this drug works very quickly, within a few hours or a day, and it doesn't work on serotonin. it works on glutamate, which is another neurotransmitter. and it's also repurposed. it was traditionally used as anesthesia in surgery. but unlike those other drugs, which were recognized pretty quickly, it took us 20 years to realize that calypsol was an antidepressant, despite the fact that it's actually a better antidepressant, probably, than those other drugs. it's actually probably because of the fact that it's a better antidepressant that it was harder for us to recognize. there was no mania to signal its effects.so in 2013, up at columbia university, i was working with my colleague, dr. christine ann denny, and we were studying calypsol as an antidepressant in mice. and calypsol has, like, a really short half-life, which means it's out of your body within a few hours. and we were just piloting. so we would give an injection to mice, and then we'd wait a week, and then we'd run another experiment to save money.and one of the experiments i was running, we would stress the mice, and we used that as a model of depression. and at first it kind of just looked like it didn't really work at all. so we could have stopped there. but i have run this model of depression for years, and the data just looked kind of weird. it didn't really look right to me. so i went back, and we reanalyzed it based on whether or not they had gotten that one injection of calypsol a week beforehand. and it looked kind of like this. so if you look at the far left, if you put a mouse in a new space, this is the box, it's very exciting, a mouse will walk around and explore, and you can see that pink line is actually the measure of them walking. and we also give it another mouse in a pencil cup that it can decide to interact with. this is also a dramatization, in case that's not clear. and a normal mouse will explore. it will be social. check out what's going on. if you stress a mouse in this depression model, which is the middle box, they aren't social, they don't explore. they mostly just kind of hide in that back corner, behind a cup. yet the mice that had gotten that one injection of calypsol, here on your right, they were exploring, they were social. they looked like they had never been stressed at all, which is impossible.so we could have just stopped there, but christine had also used calypsol before as anesthesia, and a few years ago she had seen that it seemed to have some weird effects on cells and some other behavior that also seemed to last long after the drug, maybe a few weeks. so we were like, ok, maybe this is not completely impossible, but we were really skeptical.so we did what you do in science when you're not sure, and we ran it again. and i remember being in the animal room, moving mice from box to box to test them, and christine was actually sitting on the floor with the computer in her lap so the mice couldn't see her, and she was analyzing the data in real time. and i remember us yelling, which you're not supposed to do in an animal room where you're testing, because it had worked. it seemed like these mice were protected against stress, or they were inappropriately happy, however you want to call it. and we were really excited.and then we were really skeptical, because it was too good to be true. so we ran it again. and then we ran it again in a ptsd model, and we ran it again in a physiological model, where all we did was give stress hormones. and we had our undergrads run it. and then we had our collaborators halfway across the world in france run it. and every time someone ran it, they confirmed the same thing. it seemed like this one injection of calypsol was somehow protecting against stress for weeks.and we only published this a year ago, but since then other labs have independently confirmed this effect. so we don't know what causes depression, but we do know that stress is the initial trigger in 80 percent of cases, and depression and ptsd are different diseases, but this is something they share in common. right? it is traumatic stress like active combat or natural disasters or community violence or sexual assault that causes post-traumatic stress disorder, and not everyone that is exposed to stress develops a mood disorder. and this ability to experience stress and be resilient and bounce back and not develop depression or ptsd is known as stress resilience, and it varies between people. and we have always thought of it as just sort of this passive property. it's the absence of susceptibility factors and risk factors for these disorders. but what if it were active? maybe we could enhance it, sort of akin to putting on armor.we had accidentally discovered the first resilience-enhancing drug. and like i said, we only gave a tiny amount of the drug, and it lasted for weeks, and that's not like anything you see with antidepressants.but it is actually kind of similar to what you see in immune vaccines. so in immune vaccines, you'll get your shots, and then weeks, months, years later, when you're actually exposed to bacteria, it's not the vaccine in your body that protects you. it's your own immune system that's developed resistance and resilience to this bacteria that fights it off, and you actually never get the infection, which is very different from, say, our treatments. right? in that case, you get the infection, you're exposed to the bacteria, you're sick, and then you take, say, an antibiotic which cures it, and those drugs are actually working to kill the bacteria. or similar to as i said before, with this palliative, you'll take something that will suppress the symptoms, but it won't treat the underlying infection, and you'll only feel better during the time in which you're taking it, which is why you have to keep taking it. and in depression and ptsd — here we have your stress exposure — we only have palliative care. antidepressants only suppress symptoms, and that is why you basically have to keep taking them for the life of the disease, which is often the length of your own life.so we're calling our resilience-enhancing drugs "paravaccines," which means vaccine-like, because it seems like they might have the potential to protect against stress and prevent mice from developing depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. also, not all antidepressants are also paravaccines. we tried prozac as well, and that had no effect.so if this were to translate into humans, we might be able to protect people who are predictably at risk against stress-induced disorders like depression and ptsd. so that's first responders and firefighters, refugees, prisoners and prison guards, soldiers, you name it.and to give you a sense of the scale of these diseases, in 2010, the global burden of disease was estimated at 2.5 trillion dollars, and since they are chronic, that cost is compounding and is therefore expected to rise up to six trillion dollars in just the next 15 years.as i mentioned before, repurposing can be challenging because of our prior biases. calypsol has another name, ketamine, which also goes by another name, special k, which is a club drug and drug of abuse. it's still used across the world as an anesthetic. it's used in children. we use it on the battlefield. it's actually the drug of choice in a lot of developing nations, because it doesn't affect breathing. it is on the world health organization list of most essential medicines.if we had discovered ketamine as a paravaccine first, it'd be pretty easy for us to develop it, but as is, we have to compete with our functional fixedness and mental set that kind of interfere. fortunately, it's not the only compound we have discovered that has these prophylactic, paravaccine qualities, but all of the other drugs we've discovered, or compounds if you will, they're totally new, they have to go through the entire fda approval process — if they make it before they can ever be used in humans. and that will be years. so if we wanted something sooner, ketamine is already fda-approved. it's generic, it's available. we could develop it for a fraction of the price and a fraction of the time.but actually, beyond functional fixedness and mental set, there's a real other challenge to repurposing drugs, which is policy. there are no incentives in place once a drug is generic and off patent and no longer exclusive to encourage pharma companies to develop them, because they don't make money. and that's not true for just ketamine. that is true for all drugs. regardless, the idea itself is completely novel in psychiatry, to use drugs to prevent mental illness as opposed to just treat it.it is possible that 20, 50, 100 years from now, we will look back now at depression and ptsd the way we look back at tuberculosis sanitoriums as a thing of the past. this could be the beginning of the end of the mental health epidemic.but as a great scientist once said, "only a fool is sure of anything. a wise man keeps on guessing."thank you, guys. <title = "How students of color confront impostor syndrome">
<tags = "['children', 'community', 'education', 'family', 'fear', 'identity', 'inequality', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'race', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Educator">
so, my journey began in the bronx, new york, in a one-bedroom apartment, with my two sisters and immigrant mother. i loved our neighborhood. it was lively. there was all this merengue blasting, neighbors socializing on building stoops and animated conversations over domino playing. it was home, and it was sweet. but it wasn't simple. in fact, everyone at school knew the block where we lived, because it was where people came to buy weed and other drugs. and with drug-dealing comes conflict, so we often went to sleep to the sound of gunshots.i spent much of my childhood worried, worried about our safety. and so did our mother. she worried that the violence we witnessed would overtake our lives; that our poverty meant that the neighbors with whom we lived and shared space would harm us. our entire life was in the bronx, but my mother's anxiety spurred her into action, and soon we were driving so fast to connecticut — to boarding school campuses, with full scholarships in tow. man, don't underestimate the power of a mother determined to keep her children safe.(cheers) at boarding school, for the first time, i was able to sleep without worry. i could leave my dorm room unlocked, walk barefoot in the grass, and look up to see a night sky full of stars. happy novelties.but there were other novelties as well. very quickly, i felt like i didn't belong. i learned that i didn't speak the right way, and to demonstrate the proper ways of speaking, my teachers gave me frequent lessons, in public, on the appropriate way to enunciate certain words.a teacher once instructed me in the hallway: "aaaaaas-king." she said this loudly. "dena, it's not 'axing,' like you're running around with an axe. that's silly."now at this point, you can imagine the snickers of my classmates, but she continued: "think about breaking the word into 'ass' and 'king,' and then put the two together to say it correctly — 'asking.'"there were some other moments that reminded me that i didn't belong. once, i walked into a classmate's dorm room, and i watched her watch her valuables around me. like, why would she do that? i thought to myself. and then there was the time when another classmate walked into my dorm room, and yelled, "ew!" as i was applying hair grease to my scalp.there is emotional damage done when young people can't be themselves, when they are forced to edit who they are in order to be acceptable. it's a kind of violence.ultimately, i'm a quintessential success story. i attended boarding school and college in new england, studied abroad in chile and returned to the bronx to be a middle school teacher. i received a truman scholarship, a fulbright and a soros fellowship. and i could list more. but i won't. i earned my doctorate at columbia university.(cheers) and then i landed a job at yale. i am proud of everything that i've been able to accomplish on my journey thus far.i have eternal imposter syndrome. either i've been invited because i'm a token, which really isn't about me, but rather, about a box someone needed to check off. or, i am exceptional, which means i've had to leave the people i love behind. it's the price that i and so many others pay for learning while black. i police myself all the time. are my pants too tight? should i wear my hair up or in a fro? should i speak up for myself, or will the power of my words be reduced to: "she's angry"?why did i have to leave the bronx to gain access to a better education? and why, in the process of getting that better education, did i have to endure the trauma of erasing what made me, me — a black girl from the bronx, raised by an antiguan mother? so when i think about our current education reform initiatives, i can't help asking: what are our students of color learning about themselves?three — three decades of research reveal that students of color are suspended and expelled at a rate three times greater than white students, and are punished in harsher ways for the same infractions. they also learn this through the absence of their lives and narratives in the curricula. the cooperative children's book center did a review of nearly 4,000 books and found that only three percent were about african-americans. and they further learn this through the lack of teachers that look like them. an analysis of data from the national center for education statistics found that 45 percent of our nation's pre-k to high school students were people of color, while only 17 percent of our teachers are.our youth of color pay a profound price when their schooling sends them the message that they must be controlled, that they must leave their identities at home in order to be successful. every child deserves an education that guarantees the safety to learn in the comfort of one's own skin. it is possible to create emotionally and physically safe classrooms where students also thrive academically. i know, because i did it in my classroom when i returned to teach in the bronx.so what did that look like? i centered my instruction on the lives, histories and identities of my students. and i did all of this because i wanted my students to know that everyone around them was supporting them to be their best self. so while i could not control the instability of their homes, the uncertainty of their next meal, or the loud neighbors that kept them from sleep, i provided them with a loving classroom that made them feel proud of who they are, that made them know that they mattered.you know, every time i hear or say the word "asking," i am in high school again. i am thinking about "ass" and "king" and putting the two together so that i speak in a way where someone in power will want to listen.there is a better way, one that doesn't force kids of color into a double bind; a way for them to preserve their ties to their families, homes and communities; a way that teaches them to trust their instincts and to have faith in their own creative genius.thank you. <title = "How to gain control of your free time">
<tags = "['choice', 'goal-setting', 'happiness', 'personal growth', 'time', 'work', 'work-life balance']">
<occupation = "Author">
when people find out i write about time management, they assume two things. one is that i'm always on time, and i'm not. i have four small children, and i would like to blame them for my occasional tardiness, but sometimes it's just not their fault. i was once late to my own speech on time management. we all had to just take a moment together and savor that irony.the second thing they assume is that i have lots of tips and tricks for saving bits of time here and there. sometimes i'll hear from magazines that are doing a story along these lines, generally on how to help their readers find an extra hour in the day. and the idea is that we'll shave bits of time off everyday activities, add it up, and we'll have time for the good stuff. i question the entire premise of this piece, but i'm always interested in hearing what they've come up with before they call me. some of my favorites: doing errands where you only have to make right-hand turns — being extremely judicious in microwave usage: it says three to three-and-a-half minutes on the package, we're totally getting in on the bottom side of that. and my personal favorite, which makes sense on some level, is to dvr your favorite shows so you can fast-forward through the commercials. that way, you save eight minutes every half hour, so in the course of two hours of watching tv, you find 32 minutes to exercise. which is true. you know another way to find 32 minutes to exercise? don't watch two hours of tv a day, right? anyway, the idea is we'll save bits of time here and there, add it up, we will finally get to everything we want to do. but after studying how successful people spend their time and looking at their schedules hour by hour, i think this idea has it completely backward. we don't build the lives we want by saving time. we build the lives we want, and then time saves itself.here's what i mean. i recently did a time diary project looking at 1,001 days in the lives of extremely busy women. they had demanding jobs, sometimes their own businesses, kids to care for, maybe parents to care for, community commitments — busy, busy people. i had them keep track of their time for a week so i could add up how much they worked and slept, and i interviewed them about their strategies, for my book.one of the women whose time log i studied goes out on a wednesday night for something. she comes home to find that her water heater has broken, and there is now water all over her basement. if you've ever had anything like this happen to you, you know it is a hugely damaging, frightening, sopping mess. so she's dealing with the immediate aftermath that night, next day she's got plumbers coming in, day after that, professional cleaning crew dealing with the ruined carpet. all this is being recorded on her time log. winds up taking seven hours of her week. seven hours. that's like finding an extra hour in the day.but i'm sure if you had asked her at the start of the week, "could you find seven hours to train for a triathlon?" "could you find seven hours to mentor seven worthy people?" i'm sure she would've said what most of us would've said, which is, "no — can't you see how busy i am?" yet when she had to find seven hours because there is water all over her basement, she found seven hours. and what this shows us is that time is highly elastic. we cannot make more time, but time will stretch to accommodate what we choose to put into it.and so the key to time management is treating our priorities as the equivalent of that broken water heater. to get at this, i like to use language from one of the busiest people i ever interviewed. by busy, i mean she was running a small business with 12 people on the payroll, she had six children in her spare time. i was getting in touch with her to set up an interview on how she "had it all" — that phrase. i remember it was a thursday morning, and she was not available to speak with me. of course, right?but the reason she was unavailable to speak with me is that she was out for a hike, because it was a beautiful spring morning, and she wanted to go for a hike. so of course this makes me even more intrigued, and when i finally do catch up with her, she explains it like this. she says, "listen laura, everything i do, every minute i spend, is my choice." and rather than say, "i don't have time to do x, y or z," she'd say, "i don't do x, y or z because it's not a priority." "i don't have time," often means "it's not a priority." if you think about it, that's really more accurate language. i could tell you i don't have time to dust my blinds, but that's not true. if you offered to pay me $100,000 to dust my blinds, i would get to it pretty quickly. since that is not going to happen, i can acknowledge this is not a matter of lacking time; it's that i don't want to do it. using this language reminds us that time is a choice. and granted, there may be horrible consequences for making different choices, i will give you that. but we are smart people, and certainly over the long run, we have the power to fill our lives with the things that deserve to be there.so how do we do that? how do we treat our priorities as the equivalent of that broken water heater?well, first we need to figure out what they are. i want to give you two strategies for thinking about this. the first, on the professional side: i'm sure many people coming up to the end of the year are giving or getting annual performance reviews. you look back over your successes over the year, your "opportunities for growth." and this serves its purpose, but i find it's more effective to do this looking forward. so i want you to pretend it's the end of next year. you're giving yourself a performance review, and it has been an absolutely amazing year for you professionally. what three to five things did you do that made it so amazing? so you can write next year's performance review now.and you can do this for your personal life, too. i'm sure many of you, like me, come december, get cards that contain these folded up sheets of colored paper, on which is written what is known as the family holiday letter. bit of a wretched genre of literature, really, going on about how amazing everyone in the household is, or even more scintillating, how busy everyone in the household is. but these letters serve a purpose, which is that they tell your friends and family what you did in your personal life that mattered to you over the year. so this year's kind of done, but i want you to pretend it's the end of next year, and it has been an absolutely amazing year for you and the people you care about. what three to five things did you do that made it so amazing? so you can write next year's family holiday letter now. don't send it. please, don't send it. but you can write it. and now, between the performance review and the family holiday letter, we have a list of six to ten goals we can work on in the next year.and now we need to break these down into doable steps. so maybe you want to write a family history. first, you can read some other family histories, get a sense for the style. then maybe think about the questions you want to ask your relatives, set up appointments to interview them. or maybe you want to run a 5k. so you need to find a race and sign up, figure out a training plan, and dig those shoes out of the back of the closet. and then — this is key — we treat our priorities as the equivalent of that broken water heater, by putting them into our schedules first. we do this by thinking through our weeks before we are in them.i find a really good time to do this is friday afternoons. friday afternoon is what an economist might call a "low opportunity cost" time. most of us are not sitting there on friday afternoons saying, "i am excited to make progress toward my personal and professional priorities right now." but we are willing to think about what those should be. so take a little bit of time friday afternoon, make yourself a three-category priority list: career, relationships, self. making a three-category list reminds us that there should be something in all three categories. career, we think about; relationships, self — not so much. but anyway, just a short list, two to three items in each. then look out over the whole of the next week, and see where you can plan them in.where you plan them in is up to you. i know this is going to be more complicated for some people than others. i mean, some people's lives are just harder than others. it is not going to be easy to find time to take that poetry class if you are caring for multiple children on your own. i get that. and i don't want to minimize anyone's struggle. but i do think that the numbers i am about to tell you are empowering.there are 168 hours in a week. twenty-four times seven is 168 hours. that is a lot of time. if you are working a full-time job, so 40 hours a week, sleeping eight hours a night, so 56 hours a week — that leaves 72 hours for other things. that is a lot of time. you say you're working 50 hours a week, maybe a main job and a side hustle. well, that leaves 62 hours for other things. you say you're working 60 hours. well, that leaves 52 hours for other things. you say you're working more than 60 hours. well, are you sure? there was once a study comparing people's estimated work weeks with time diaries. they found that people claiming 75-plus-hour work weeks were off by about 25 hours. you can guess in which direction, right? anyway, in 168 hours a week, i think we can find time for what matters to you. if you want to spend more time with your kids, you want to study more for a test you're taking, you want to exercise for three hours and volunteer for two, you can. and that's even if you're working way more than full-time hours.so we have plenty of time, which is great, because guess what? we don't even need that much time to do amazing things. but when most of us have bits of time, what do we do? pull out the phone, right? start deleting emails. otherwise, we're puttering around the house or watching tv.but small moments can have great power. you can use your bits of time for bits of joy. maybe it's choosing to read something wonderful on the bus on the way to work. i know when i had a job that required two bus rides and a subway ride every morning, i used to go to the library on weekends to get stuff to read. it made the whole experience almost, almost, enjoyable. breaks at work can be used for meditating or praying. if family dinner is out because of your crazy work schedule, maybe family breakfast could be a good substitute.it's about looking at the whole of one's time and seeing where the good stuff can go. i truly believe this. there is time. even if we are busy, we have time for what matters. and when we focus on what matters, we can build the lives we want in the time we've got.thank you. <title = "Will automation take away all our jobs?">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'agriculture', 'behavioral economics', 'business', 'collaboration', 'economics', 'farming', 'history', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'manufacturing', 'population', 'productivity', 'social change', 'society', 'technology', 'work']">
<occupation = "Economist">
here's a startling fact: in the 45 years since the introduction of the automated teller machine, those vending machines that dispense cash, the number of human bank tellers employed in the united states has roughly doubled, from about a quarter of a million to a half a million. a quarter of a million in 1970 to about a half a million today, with 100,000 added since the year 2000.these facts, revealed in a recent book by boston university economist james bessen, raise an intriguing question: what are all those tellers doing, and why hasn't automation eliminated their employment by now? if you think about it, many of the great inventions of the last 200 years were designed to replace human labor. tractors were developed to substitute mechanical power for human physical toil. assembly lines were engineered to replace inconsistent human handiwork with machine perfection. computers were programmed to swap out error-prone, inconsistent human calculation with digital perfection. these inventions have worked. we no longer dig ditches by hand, pound tools out of wrought iron or do bookkeeping using actual books. and yet, the fraction of us adults employed in the labor market is higher now in 2016 than it was 125 years ago, in 1890, and it's risen in just about every decade in the intervening 125 years.this poses a paradox. our machines increasingly do our work for us. why doesn't this make our labor redundant and our skills obsolete? why are there still so many jobs? i'm going to try to answer that question tonight, and along the way, i'm going to tell you what this means for the future of work and the challenges that automation does and does not pose for our society.why are there so many jobs? there are actually two fundamental economic principles at stake. one has to do with human genius and creativity. the other has to do with human insatiability, or greed, if you like. i'm going to call the first of these the o-ring principle, and it determines the type of work that we do. the second principle is the never-get-enough principle, and it determines how many jobs there actually are.let's start with the o-ring. atms, automated teller machines, had two countervailing effects on bank teller employment. as you would expect, they replaced a lot of teller tasks. the number of tellers per branch fell by about a third. but banks quickly discovered that it also was cheaper to open new branches, and the number of bank branches increased by about 40 percent in the same time period. the net result was more branches and more tellers. but those tellers were doing somewhat different work. as their routine, cash-handling tasks receded, they became less like checkout clerks and more like salespeople, forging relationships with customers, solving problems and introducing them to new products like credit cards, loans and investments: more tellers doing a more cognitively demanding job. there's a general principle here. most of the work that we do requires a multiplicity of skills, and brains and brawn, technical expertise and intuitive mastery, perspiration and inspiration in the words of thomas edison. in general, automating some subset of those tasks doesn't make the other ones unnecessary. in fact, it makes them more important. it increases their economic value.let me give you a stark example. in 1986, the space shuttle challenger exploded and crashed back down to earth less than two minutes after takeoff. the cause of that crash, it turned out, was an inexpensive rubber o-ring in the booster rocket that had frozen on the launchpad the night before and failed catastrophically moments after takeoff. in this multibillion dollar enterprise that simple rubber o-ring made the difference between mission success and the calamitous death of seven astronauts. an ingenious metaphor for this tragic setting is the o-ring production function, named by harvard economist michael kremer after the challenger disaster. the o-ring production function conceives of the work as a series of interlocking steps, links in a chain. every one of those links must hold for the mission to succeed. if any of them fails, the mission, or the product or the service, comes crashing down. this precarious situation has a surprisingly positive implication, which is that improvements in the reliability of any one link in the chain increases the value of improving any of the other links. concretely, if most of the links are brittle and prone to breakage, the fact that your link is not that reliable is not that important. probably something else will break anyway. but as all the other links become robust and reliable, the importance of your link becomes more essential. in the limit, everything depends upon it. the reason the o-ring was critical to space shuttle challenger is because everything else worked perfectly. if the challenger were kind of the space era equivalent of microsoft windows 2000 — the reliability of the o-ring wouldn't have mattered because the machine would have crashed. here's the broader point. in much of the work that we do, we are the o-rings. yes, atms could do certain cash-handling tasks faster and better than tellers, but that didn't make tellers superfluous. it increased the importance of their problem-solving skills and their relationships with customers. the same principle applies if we're building a building, if we're diagnosing and caring for a patient, or if we are teaching a class to a roomful of high schoolers. as our tools improve, technology magnifies our leverage and increases the importance of our expertise and our judgment and our creativity.and that brings me to the second principle: never get enough. you may be thinking, ok, o-ring, got it, that says the jobs that people do will be important. they can't be done by machines, but they still need to be done. but that doesn't tell me how many jobs there will need to be. if you think about it, isn't it kind of self-evident that once we get sufficiently productive at something, we've basically worked our way out of a job? in 1900, 40 percent of all us employment was on farms. today, it's less than two percent. why are there so few farmers today? it's not because we're eating less. a century of productivity growth in farming means that now, a couple of million farmers can feed a nation of 320 million. that's amazing progress, but it also means there are only so many o-ring jobs left in farming. so clearly, technology can eliminate jobs. farming is only one example. there are many others like it. but what's true about a single product or service or industry has never been true about the economy as a whole. many of the industries in which we now work — health and medicine, finance and insurance, electronics and computing — were tiny or barely existent a century ago. many of the products that we spend a lot of our money on — air conditioners, sport utility vehicles, computers and mobile devices — were unattainably expensive, or just hadn't been invented a century ago. as automation frees our time, increases the scope of what is possible, we invent new products, new ideas, new services that command our attention, occupy our time and spur consumption. you may think some of these things are frivolous — extreme yoga, adventure tourism, pokémon go — and i might agree with you. but people desire these things, and they're willing to work hard for them. the average worker in 2015 wanting to attain the average living standard in 1915 could do so by working just 17 weeks a year, one third of the time. but most people don't choose to do that. they are willing to work hard to harvest the technological bounty that is available to them. material abundance has never eliminated perceived scarcity. in the words of economist thorstein veblen, invention is the mother of necessity.now ... so if you accept these two principles, the o-ring principle and the never-get-enough principle, then you agree with me. there will be jobs. does that mean there's nothing to worry about? automation, employment, robots and jobs — it'll all take care of itself? no. that is not my argument. automation creates wealth by allowing us to do more work in less time. there is no economic law that says that we will use that wealth well, and that is worth worrying about. consider two countries, norway and saudi arabia. both oil-rich nations, it's like they have money spurting out of a hole in the ground. but they haven't used that wealth equally well to foster human prosperity, human prospering. norway is a thriving democracy. by and large, its citizens work and play well together. it's typically numbered between first and fourth in rankings of national happiness. saudi arabia is an absolute monarchy in which many citizens lack a path for personal advancement. it's typically ranked 35th among nations in happiness, which is low for such a wealthy nation. just by way of comparison, the us is typically ranked around 12th or 13th. the difference between these two countries is not their wealth and it's not their technology. it's their institutions. norway has invested to build a society with opportunity and economic mobility. saudi arabia has raised living standards while frustrating many other human strivings. two countries, both wealthy, not equally well off.and this brings me to the challenge that we face today, the challenge that automation poses for us. the challenge is not that we're running out of work. the us has added 14 million jobs since the depths of the great recession. the challenge is that many of those jobs are not good jobs, and many citizens cannot qualify for the good jobs that are being created. employment growth in the united states and in much of the developed world looks something like a barbell with increasing poundage on either end of the bar. on the one hand, you have high-education, high-wage jobs like doctors and nurses, programmers and engineers, marketing and sales managers. employment is robust in these jobs, employment growth. similarly, employment growth is robust in many low-skill, low-education jobs like food service, cleaning, security, home health aids. simultaneously, employment is shrinking in many middle-education, middle-wage, middle-class jobs, like blue-collar production and operative positions and white-collar clerical and sales positions. the reasons behind this contracting middle are not mysterious. many of those middle-skill jobs use well-understood rules and procedures that can increasingly be codified in software and executed by computers. the challenge that this phenomenon creates, what economists call employment polarization, is that it knocks out rungs in the economic ladder, shrinks the size of the middle class and threatens to make us a more stratified society. on the one hand, a set of highly paid, highly educated professionals doing interesting work, on the other, a large number of citizens in low-paid jobs whose primary responsibility is to see to the comfort and health of the affluent. that is not my vision of progress, and i doubt that it is yours.but here is some encouraging news. we have faced equally momentous economic transformations in the past, and we have come through them successfully. in the late 1800s and early 1900s, when automation was eliminating vast numbers of agricultural jobs — remember that tractor? — the farm states faced a threat of mass unemployment, a generation of youth no longer needed on the farm but not prepared for industry. rising to this challenge, they took the radical step of requiring that their entire youth population remain in school and continue their education to the ripe old age of 16. this was called the high school movement, and it was a radically expensive thing to do. not only did they have to invest in the schools, but those kids couldn't work at their jobs. it also turned out to be one of the best investments the us made in the 20th century. it gave us the most skilled, the most flexible and the most productive workforce in the world. to see how well this worked, imagine taking the labor force of 1899 and bringing them into the present. despite their strong backs and good characters, many of them would lack the basic literacy and numeracy skills to do all but the most mundane jobs. many of them would be unemployable.what this example highlights is the primacy of our institutions, most especially our schools, in allowing us to reap the harvest of our technological prosperity.it's foolish to say there's nothing to worry about. clearly we can get this wrong. if the us had not invested in its schools and in its skills a century ago with the high school movement, we would be a less prosperous, a less mobile and probably a lot less happy society. but it's equally foolish to say that our fates are sealed. that's not decided by the machines. it's not even decided by the market. it's decided by us and by our institutions.now, i started this talk with a paradox. our machines increasingly do our work for us. why doesn't that make our labor superfluous, our skills redundant? isn't it obvious that the road to our economic and social hell is paved with our own great inventions?history has repeatedly offered an answer to that paradox. the first part of the answer is that technology magnifies our leverage, increases the importance, the added value of our expertise, our judgment and our creativity. that's the o-ring. the second part of the answer is our endless inventiveness and bottomless desires means that we never get enough, never get enough. there's always new work to do. adjusting to the rapid pace of technological change creates real challenges, seen most clearly in our polarized labor market and the threat that it poses to economic mobility. rising to this challenge is not automatic. it's not costless. it's not easy. but it is feasible. and here is some encouraging news. because of our amazing productivity, we're rich. of course we can afford to invest in ourselves and in our children as america did a hundred years ago with the high school movement. arguably, we can't afford not to.now, you may be thinking, professor autor has told us a heartwarming tale about the distant past, the recent past, maybe the present, but probably not the future. because everybody knows that this time is different. right? is this time different? of course this time is different. every time is different. on numerous occasions in the last 200 years, scholars and activists have raised the alarm that we are running out of work and making ourselves obsolete: for example, the luddites in the early 1800s; us secretary of labor james davis in the mid-1920s; nobel prize-winning economist wassily leontief in 1982; and of course, many scholars, pundits, technologists and media figures today.these predictions strike me as arrogant. these self-proclaimed oracles are in effect saying, "if i can't think of what people will do for work in the future, then you, me and our kids aren't going to think of it either." i don't have the guts to take that bet against human ingenuity. look, i can't tell you what people are going to do for work a hundred years from now. but the future doesn't hinge on my imagination. if i were a farmer in iowa in the year 1900, and an economist from the 21st century teleported down to my field and said, "hey, guess what, farmer autor, in the next hundred years, agricultural employment is going to fall from 40 percent of all jobs to two percent purely due to rising productivity. what do you think the other 38 percent of workers are going to do?" i would not have said, "oh, we got this. we'll do app development, radiological medicine, yoga instruction, bitmoji." i wouldn't have had a clue. but i hope i would have had the wisdom to say, "wow, a 95 percent reduction in farm employment with no shortage of food. that's an amazing amount of progress. i hope that humanity finds something remarkable to do with all of that prosperity."and by and large, i would say that it has.thank you very much. <title = "What will you tell your daughters about 2016?">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'children', 'death', 'future', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'media', 'parenting', 'performance', 'performance art', 'poetry', 'social change', 'social media', 'violence', 'women']">
<occupation = "Writer, educator">
tell your daughters of this year, how we woke needing coffee but discovered instead cadavers strewn about our morning papers, waterlogged facsimiles of our sisters, spouses, small children. say to your baby of this year when she asks, as she certainly should, tell her it was too late coming. admit even in the year we leased freedom, we didn't own it outright. there were still laws for every way we used our privates while they pawed at the soft folds of us, grabbed with no concern for consent, no laws made for the men that enforced them. we were trained to dodge, to wait, to cower and cover, to wait more, still, wait. we were told to be silent.but speak to your girls of this wartime, a year preceded by a score of the same, so as in two decades before, we wiped our eyes, laced caskets with flags, evacuated the crime scene of the club, caterwauled in the street, laid our bodies on the concrete against the outlines of our fallen, cried, "of course we mattered," chanted for our disappeared. the women wept this year. they did.in the same year, we were ready. the year we lost our inhibition and moved with courageous abandon was also the year we stared down barrels, sang of cranes in skies, ducked and parried, caught gold in hijab, collected death threats, knew ourselves as patriots, said, "we're 35 now, time we settled down and found a running mate," made road maps for infant joy, shamed nothing but fear, called ourselves fat and meant, of course, impeccable.this year, we were women, not brides or trinkets, not an off-brand gender, not a concession, but women.instruct your babies. remind them that the year has passed to be docile or small. some of us said for the first time that we were women, took this oath of solidarity seriously. some of us bore children and some of us did not, and none of us questioned whether that made us real or appropriate or true.when she asks you of this year, your daughter, whether your offspring or heir to your triumph, from her comforted side of history teetering towards woman, she will wonder and ask voraciously, though she cannot fathom your sacrifice, she will hold your estimation of it holy, curiously probing, "where were you? did you fight? were you fearful or fearsome? what colored the walls of your regret? what did you do for women in the year it was time? this path you made for me, which bones had to break? did you do enough, and are you ok, momma? and are you a hero?" she will ask the difficult questions.she will not care about the arc of your brow, the weight of your clutch. she will not ask of your mentions. your daughter, for whom you have already carried so much, wants to know what you brought, what gift, what light did you keep from extinction? when they came for victims in the night, did you sleep through it or were you roused? what was the cost of staying woke? what, in the year we said time's up, what did you do with your privilege? did you sup on others' squalor? did you look away or directly into the flame? did you know your skill or treat it like a liability? were you fooled by the epithets of "nasty" or "less than"? did you teach with an open heart or a clenched fist? where were you?tell her the truth. make it your life. confirm it. say, "daughter, i stood there with the moment drawn on my face like a dagger, and flung it back at itself, slicing space for you." tell her the truth, how you lived in spite of crooked odds. tell her you were brave, and always, always in the company of courage, mostly the days when you just had yourself. tell her she was born as you were, as your mothers before, and the sisters beside them, in the age of legends, like always.tell her she was born just in time, just in time to lead. <title = "Why Earth may someday look like Mars">
<tags = "['Mars', 'Planets', 'TEDx', 'astrobiology', 'astronomy', 'biosphere', 'environment', 'future', 'rocket science', 'science', 'solar system', 'technology', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Astrophysicist">
so when you look out at the stars at night, it's amazing what you can see. it's beautiful. but what's more amazing is what you can't see, because what we know now is that around every star or almost every star, there's a planet, or probably a few.so what this picture isn't showing you are all the planets that we know about out there in space. but when we think about planets, we tend to think of faraway things that are very different from our own. but here we are on a planet, and there are so many things that are amazing about earth that we're searching far and wide to find things that are like that. and when we're searching, we're finding amazing things. but i want to tell you about an amazing thing here on earth. and that is that every minute, 400 pounds of hydrogen and almost seven pounds of helium escape from earth into space. and this is gas that is going off and never coming back. so hydrogen, helium and many other things make up what's known as the earth's atmosphere. the atmosphere is just these gases that form a thin blue line that's seen here from the international space station, a photograph that some astronauts took. and this tenuous veneer around our planet is what allows life to flourish. it protects our planet from too many impacts, from meteorites and the like. and it's such an amazing phenomenon that the fact that it's disappearing should frighten you, at least a little bit.so this process is something that i study and it's called atmospheric escape. so atmospheric escape is not specific to planet earth. it's part of what it means to be a planet, if you ask me, because planets, not just here on earth but throughout the universe, can undergo atmospheric escape. and the way it happens actually tells us about planets themselves. because when you think about the solar system, you might think about this picture here. and you would say, well, there are eight planets, maybe nine. so for those of you who are stressed by this picture, i will add somebody for you. courtesy of new horizons, we're including pluto. and the thing here is, for the purposes of this talk and atmospheric escape, pluto is a planet in my mind, in the same way that planets around other stars that we can't see are also planets. so fundamental characteristics of planets include the fact that they are bodies that are bound together by gravity. so it's a lot of material just stuck together with this attractive force. and these bodies are so big and have so much gravity. that's why they're round. so when you look at all of these, including pluto, they're round.so you can see that gravity is really at play here. but another fundamental characteristic about planets is what you don't see here, and that's the star, the sun, that all of the planets in the solar system are orbiting around. and that's fundamentally driving atmospheric escape. the reason that fundamentally stars drive atmospheric escape from planets is because stars offer planets particles and light and heat that can cause the atmospheres to go away. so if you think of a hot-air balloon, or you look at this picture of lanterns in thailand at a festival, you can see that hot air can propel gasses upward. and if you have enough energy and heating, which our sun does, that gas, which is so light and only bound by gravity, it can escape into space. and so this is what's actually causing atmospheric escape here on earth and also on other planets — that interplay between heating from the star and overcoming the force of gravity on the planet.so i've told you that it happens at the rate of 400 pounds a minute for hydrogen and almost seven pounds for helium. but what does that look like? well, even in the '80s, we took pictures of the earth in the ultraviolet using nasa's dynamic explorer spacecraft. so these two images of the earth show you what that glow of escaping hydrogen looks like, shown in red. and you can also see other features like oxygen and nitrogen in that white glimmer in the circle showing you the auroras and also some wisps around the tropics. so these are pictures that conclusively show us that our atmosphere isn't just tightly bound to us here on earth but it's actually reaching out far into space, and at an alarming rate, i might add.but the earth is not alone in undergoing atmospheric escape. mars, our nearest neighbor, is much smaller than earth, so it has much less gravity with which to hold on to its atmosphere. and so even though mars has an atmosphere, we can see it's much thinner than the earth's. just look at the surface. you see craters indicating that it didn't have an atmosphere that could stop those impacts. also, we see that it's the "red planet," and atmospheric escape plays a role in mars being red. that's because we think mars used to have a wetter past, and when water had enough energy, it broke up into hydrogen and oxygen, and hydrogen being so light, it escaped into space, and the oxygen that was left oxidized or rusted the ground, making that familiar rusty red color that we see.so it's fine to look at pictures of mars and say that atmospheric escape probably happened, but nasa has a probe that's currently at mars called the maven satellite, and its actual job is to study atmospheric escape. it's the mars atmosphere and volatile evolution spacecraft. and results from it have already shown pictures very similar to what you've seen here on earth. we've long known that mars was losing its atmosphere, but we have some stunning pictures. here, for example, you can see in the red circle is the size of mars, and in blue you can see the hydrogen escaping away from the planet. so it's reaching out more than 10 times the size of the planet, far enough away that it's no longer bound to that planet. it's escaping off into space. and this helps us confirm ideas, like why mars is red, from that lost hydrogen. but hydrogen isn't the only gas that's lost. i mentioned helium on earth and some oxygen and nitrogen, and from maven we can also look at the oxygen being lost from mars. and you can see that because oxygen is heavier, it can't get as far as the hydrogen, but it's still escaping away from the planet. you don't see it all confined into that red circle.so the fact that we not only see atmospheric escape on our own planet but we can study it elsewhere and send spacecraft allows us to learn about the past of planets but also about planets in general and earth's future. so one way we actually can learn about the future is by planets so far away that we can't see. and i should just note though, before i go on to that, i'm not going to show you photos like this of pluto, which might be disappointing, but that's because we don't have them yet. but the new horizons mission is currently studying atmospheric escape being lost from the planet. so stay tuned and look out for that. but the planets that i did want to talk about are known as transiting exoplanets.so any planet orbiting a star that's not our sun is called an exoplanet, or extrasolar planet. and these planets that we call transiting have the special feature that if you look at that star in the middle, you'll see that actually it's blinking. and the reason that it's blinking is because there are planets that are going past it all the time, and it's that special orientation where the planets are blocking the light from the star that allows us to see that light blinking. and by surveying the stars in the night sky for this blinking motion, we are able to find planets. this is how we've now been able to detect over 5,000 planets in our own milky way, and we know there are many more out there, like i mentioned.so when we look at the light from these stars, what we see, like i said, is not the planet itself, but you actually see a dimming of the light that we can record in time. so the light drops as the planet decreases in front of the star, and that's that blinking that you saw before. so not only do we detect the planets but we can look at this light in different wavelengths. so i mentioned looking at the earth and mars in ultraviolet light. if we look at transiting exoplanets with the hubble space telescope, we find that in the ultraviolet, you see much bigger blinking, much less light from the star, when the planet is passing in front. and we think this is because you have an extended atmosphere of hydrogen all around the planet that's making it look puffier and thus blocking more of the light that you see.so using this technique, we've actually been able to discover a few transiting exoplanets that are undergoing atmospheric escape. and these planets can be called hot jupiters, for some of the ones we've found. and that's because they're gas planets like jupiter, but they're so close to their star, about a hundred times closer than jupiter. and because there's all this lightweight gas that's ready to escape, and all this heating from the star, you have completely catastrophic rates of atmospheric escape. so unlike our 400 pounds per minute of hydrogen being lost on earth, for these planets, you're losing 1.3 billion pounds of hydrogen every minute.so you might think, well, does this make the planet cease to exist? and this is a question that people wondered when they looked at our solar system, because planets closer to the sun are rocky, and planets further away are bigger and more gaseous. could you have started with something like jupiter that was actually close to the sun, and get rid of all the gas in it? we now think that if you start with something like a hot jupiter, you actually can't end up with mercury or the earth. but if you started with something smaller, it's possible that enough gas would have gotten away that it would have significantly impacted it and left you with something very different than what you started with.so all of this sounds sort of general, and we might think about the solar system, but what does this have to do with us here on earth? well, in the far future, the sun is going to get brighter. and as that happens, the heating that we find from the sun is going to become very intense. in the same way that you see gas streaming off from a hot jupiter, gas is going to stream off from the earth. and so what we can look forward to, or at least prepare for, is the fact that in the far future, the earth is going to look more like mars. our hydrogen, from water that is broken down, is going to escape into space more rapidly, and we're going to be left with this dry, reddish planet.so don't fear, it's not for a few billion years, so there's some time to prepare. but i wanted you to be aware of what's going on, not just in the future, but atmospheric escape is happening as we speak. so there's a lot of amazing science that you hear about happening in space and planets that are far away, and we are studying these planets to learn about these worlds. but as we learn about mars or exoplanets like hot jupiters, we find things like atmospheric escape that tell us a lot more about our planet here on earth.so consider that the next time you think that space is far away.thank you. <title = "It's time to reclaim religion">
<tags = "['communication', 'community', 'faith', 'humanity', 'identity', 'innovation', 'morality', 'religion', 'social change', 'society', 'teaching', 'violence', 'women']">
<occupation = "Rabbi">
i was a new mother and a young rabbi in the spring of 2004 and the world was in shambles. maybe you remember. every day, we heard devastating reports from the war in iraq. there were waves of terror rolling across the globe. it seemed like humanity was spinning out of control. i remember the night that i read about the series of coordinated bombings in the subway system in madrid, and i got up and i walked over to the crib where my six-month-old baby girl lay sleeping sweetly, and i heard the rhythm of her breath, and i felt this sense of urgency coursing through my body. we were living through a time of tectonic shifts in ideologies, in politics, in religion, in populations. everything felt so precarious. and i remember thinking, "my god, what kind of world did we bring this child into? and what was i as a mother and a religious leader willing to do about it?of course, i knew it was clear that religion would be a principle battlefield in this rapidly changing landscape, and it was already clear that religion was a significant part of the problem. the question for me was, could religion also be part of the solution? now, throughout history, people have committed horrible crimes and atrocities in the name of religion. and as we entered the 21st century, it was very clear that religious extremism was once again on the rise. our studies now show that over the course of the past 15, 20 years, hostilities and religion-related violence have been on the increase all over the world. but we don't even need the studies to prove it, because i ask you, how many of us are surprised today when we hear the stories of a bombing or a shooting, when we later find out that the last word that was uttered before the trigger is pulled or the bomb is detonated is the name of god? it barely raises an eyebrow today when we learn that yet another person has decided to show his love of god by taking the lives of god's children. in america, religious extremism looks like a white, antiabortion christian extremist walking into planned parenthood in colorado springs and murdering three people. it also looks like a couple inspired by the islamic state walking into an office party in san bernardino and killing 14. and even when religion-related extremism does not lead to violence, it is still used as a political wedge issue, cynically leading people to justify the subordination of women, the stigmatization of lgbt people, racism, islamophobia and anti-semitism. this ought to concern deeply those of us who care about the future of religion and the future of faith. we need to call this what it is: a great failure of religion.but the thing is, this isn't even the only challenge that religion faces today. at the very same time that we need religion to be a strong force against extremism, it is suffering from a second pernicious trend, what i call religious routine-ism. this is when our institutions and our leaders are stuck in a paradigm that is rote and perfunctory, devoid of life, devoid of vision and devoid of soul.let me explain what i mean like this. one of the great blessings of being a rabbi is standing under the chuppah, under the wedding canopy, with a couple, and helping them proclaim publicly and make holy the love that they found for one another. i want to ask you now, though, to think maybe from your own experience or maybe just imagine it about the difference between the intensity of the experience under the wedding canopy, and maybe the experience of the sixth or seventh anniversary. and if you're lucky enough to make it 16 or 17 years, if you're like most people, you probably wake up in the morning realizing that you forgot to make a reservation at your favorite restaurant and you forgot so much as a card, and then you just hope and pray that your partner also forgot.well, religious ritual and rites were essentially designed to serve the function of the anniversary, to be a container in which we would hold on to the remnants of that sacred, revelatory encounter that birthed the religion in the first place. the problem is that after a few centuries, the date remains on the calendar, but the love affair is long dead. that's when we find ourselves in endless, mindless repetitions of words that don't mean anything to us, rising and being seated because someone has asked us to, holding onto jealously guarded doctrine that's completely and wildly out of step with our contemporary reality, engaging in perfunctory practice simply because that's the way things have always been done.religion is waning in the united states. across the board, churches and synagogues and mosques are all complaining about how hard it is to maintain relevance for a generation of young people who seem completely uninterested, not only in the institutions that stand at the heart of our traditions but even in religion itself. and what they need to understand is that there is today a generation of people who are as disgusted by the violence of religious extremism as they are turned off by the lifelessness of religious routine-ism.of course there is a bright spot to this story. given the crisis of these two concurrent trends in religious life, about 12 or 13 years ago, i set out to try to determine if there was any way that i could reclaim the heart of my own jewish tradition, to help make it meaningful and purposeful again in a world on fire. i started to wonder, what if we could harness some of the great minds of our generation and think in a bold and robust and imaginative way again about what the next iteration of religious life would look like? now, we had no money, no space, no game plan, but we did have email. so my friend melissa and i sat down and we wrote an email which we sent out to a few friends and colleagues. it basically said this: "before you bail on religion, why don't we come together this friday night and see what we might make of our own jewish inheritance?"we hoped maybe 20 people would show up. it turned out 135 people came. they were cynics and seekers, atheists and rabbis. many people said that night that it was the first time that they had a meaningful religious experience in their entire lives. and so i set out to do the only rational thing that someone would do in such a circumstance: i quit my job and tried to build this audacious dream, a reinvented, rethought religious life which we called "ikar," which means "the essence" or "the heart of the matter."now, ikar is not alone out there in the religious landscape today. there are jewish and christian and muslim and catholic religious leaders, many of them women, by the way, who have set out to reclaim the heart of our traditions, who firmly believe that now is the time for religion to be part of the solution. we are going back into our sacred traditions and recognizing that all of our traditions contain the raw material to justify violence and extremism, and also contain the raw material to justify compassion, coexistence and kindness — that when others choose to read our texts as directives for hate and vengeance, we can choose to read those same texts as directives for love and for forgiveness.i have found now in communities as varied as jewish indie start-ups on the coasts to a woman's mosque, to black churches in new york and in north carolina, to a holy bus loaded with nuns that traverses this country with a message of justice and peace, that there is a shared religious ethos that is now emerging in the form of revitalized religion in this country. and while the theologies and the practices vary very much between these independent communities, what we can see are some common, consistent threads between them.i'm going to share with you four of those commitments now.the first is wakefulness. we live in a time today in which we have unprecedented access to information about every global tragedy that happens on every corner of this earth. within 12 hours, 20 million people saw that image of aylan kurdi's little body washed up on the turkish shore. we all saw this picture. we saw this picture of a five-year-old child pulled out of the rubble of his building in aleppo. and once we see these images, we are called to a certain kind of action.my tradition tells a story of a traveler who is walking down a road when he sees a beautiful house on fire, and he says, "how can it be that something so beautiful would burn, and nobody seems to even care?" so too we learn that our world is on fire, and it is our job to keep our hearts and our eyes open, and to recognize that it's our responsibility to help put out the flames.this is extremely difficult to do. psychologists tell us that the more we learn about what's broken in our world, the less likely we are to do anything. it's called psychic numbing. we just shut down at a certain point. well, somewhere along the way, our religious leaders forgot that it's our job to make people uncomfortable. it's our job to wake people up, to pull them out of their apathy and into the anguish, and to insist that we do what we don't want to do and see what we do not want to see. because we know that social change only happens — when we are awake enough to see that the house is on fire.the second principle is hope, and i want to say this about hope. hope is not naive, and hope is not an opiate. hope may be the single greatest act of defiance against a politics of pessimism and against a culture of despair. because what hope does for us is it lifts us out of the container that holds us and constrains us from the outside, and says, "you can dream and think expansively again. that they cannot control in you."i saw hope made manifest in an african-american church in the south side of chicago this summer, where i brought my little girl, who is now 13 and a few inches taller than me, to hear my friend rev. otis moss preach. that summer, there had already been 3,000 people shot between january and july in chicago. we went into that church and heard rev. moss preach, and after he did, this choir of gorgeous women, 100 women strong, stood up and began to sing. "i need you. you need me. i love you. i need you to survive." and i realized in that moment that this is what religion is supposed to be about. it's supposed to be about giving people back a sense of purpose, a sense of hope, a sense that they and their dreams fundamentally matter in this world that tells them that they don't matter at all.the third principle is the principle of mightiness. there's a rabbinic tradition that we are to walk around with two slips of paper in our pockets. one says, "i am but dust and ashes." it's not all about me. i can't control everything, and i cannot do this on my own. the other slip of paper says, "for my sake the world was created." which is to say it's true that i can't do everything, but i can surely do something. i can forgive. i can love. i can show up. i can protest. i can be a part of this conversation. we even now have a religious ritual, a posture, that holds the paradox between powerlessness and power. in the jewish community, the only time of year that we prostrate fully to the ground is during the high holy days. it's a sign of total submission. now in our community, when we get up off the ground, we stand with our hands raised to the heavens, and we say, "i am strong, i am mighty, and i am worthy. i can't do everything, but i can do something."in a world that conspires to make us believe that we are invisible and that we are impotent, religious communities and religious ritual can remind us that for whatever amount of time we have here on this earth, whatever gifts and blessings we were given, whatever resources we have, we can and we must use them to try to make the world a little bit more just and a little bit more loving.the fourth and final is interconnectedness. a few years ago, there was a man walking on the beach in alaska, when he came across a soccer ball that had some japanese letters written on it. he took a picture of it and posted it up on social media, and a japanese teenager contacted him. he had lost everything in the tsunami that devastated his country, but he was able to retrieve that soccer ball after it had floated all the way across the pacific. how small our world has become. it's so hard for us to remember how interconnected we all are as human beings. and yet, we know that it is systems of oppression that benefit the most from the lie of radical individualism.let me tell you how this works. i'm not supposed to care when black youth are harassed by police, because my white-looking jewish kids probably won't ever get pulled over for the crime of driving while black. well, not so, because this is also my problem. and guess what? transphobia and islamophobia and racism of all forms, those are also all of our problems. and so too is anti-semitism all of our problems. because emma lazarus was right. emma lazarus was right when she said until all of us are free, we are none of us free. we are all in this together. and now somewhere at the intersection of these four trends, of wakefulness and hope and mightiness and interconnectedness, there is a burgeoning, multifaith justice movement in this country that is staking a claim on a countertrend, saying that religion can and must be a force for good in the world.our hearts hurt from the failed religion of extremism, and we deserve more than the failed religion of routine-ism. it is time for religious leaders and religious communities to take the lead in the spiritual and cultural shift that this country and the world so desperately needs — a shift toward love, toward justice, toward equality and toward dignity for all. i believe that our children deserve no less than that.thank you. <title = "How we explore unanswered questions in physics">
<tags = "['Nobel prize', 'TEDx', 'collaboration', 'dark matter', 'data', 'discovery', 'engineering', 'exploration', 'future', 'history', 'innovation', 'motivation', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Experimental particle physicist">
there is something about physics that has been really bothering me since i was a little kid. and it's related to a question that scientists have been asking for almost 100 years, with no answer. how do the smallest things in nature, the particles of the quantum world, match up with the largest things in nature — planets and stars and galaxies held together by gravity?as a kid, i would puzzle over questions just like this. i would fiddle around with microscopes and electromagnets, and i would read about the forces of the small and about quantum mechanics and i would marvel at how well that description matched up to our observation. then i would look at the stars, and i would read about how well we understand gravity, and i would think surely, there must be some elegant way that these two systems match up. but there's not. and the books would say, yeah, we understand a lot about these two realms separately, but when we try to link them mathematically, everything breaks.and for 100 years, none of our ideas as to how to solve this basically physics disaster, has ever been supported by evidence. and to little old me — little, curious, skeptical james — this was a supremely unsatisfying answer.so, i'm still a skeptical little kid. flash-forward now to december of 2015, when i found myself smack in the middle of the physics world being flipped on its head. it all started when we at cern saw something intriguing in our data: a hint of a new particle, an inkling of a possibly extraordinary answer to this question.so i'm still a skeptical little kid, i think, but i'm also now a particle hunter. i am a physicist at cern's large hadron collider, the largest science experiment ever mounted. it's a 27-kilometer tunnel on the border of france and switzerland buried 100 meters underground. and in this tunnel, we use superconducting magnets colder than outer space to accelerate protons to almost the speed of light and slam them into each other millions of times per second, collecting the debris of these collisions to search for new, undiscovered fundamental particles. its design and construction took decades of work by thousands of physicists from around the globe, and in the summer of 2015, we had been working tirelessly to switch on the lhc at the highest energy that humans have ever used in a collider experiment.now, higher energy is important because for particles, there is an equivalence between energy and particle mass, and mass is just a number put there by nature. to discover new particles, we need to reach these bigger numbers. and to do that, we have to build a bigger, higher energy collider, and the biggest, highest energy collider in the world is the large hadron collider. and then, we collide protons quadrillions of times, and we collect this data very slowly, over months and months. and then new particles might show up in our data as bumps — slight deviations from what you expect, little clusters of data points that make a smooth line not so smooth. for example, this bump, after months of data-taking in 2012, led to the discovery of the higgs particle — the higgs boson — and to a nobel prize for the confirmation of its existence.this jump up in energy in 2015 represented the best chance that we as a species had ever had of discovering new particles — new answers to these long-standing questions, because it was almost twice as much energy as we used when we discovered the higgs boson. many of my colleagues had been working their entire careers for this moment, and frankly, to little curious me, this was the moment i'd been waiting for my entire life. so 2015 was go time.so june 2015, the lhc is switched back on. my colleagues and i held our breath and bit our fingernails, and then finally we saw the first proton collisions at this highest energy ever. applause, champagne, celebration. this was a milestone for science, and we had no idea what we would find in this brand-new data. and then a few weeks later, we found a bump. it wasn't a very big bump, but it was big enough to make you raise your eyebrow. but on a scale of one to 10 for eyebrow raises, if 10 indicates that you've discovered a new particle, this eyebrow raise is about a four. i spent hours, days, weeks in secret meetings, arguing with my colleagues over this little bump, poking and prodding it with our most ruthless experimental sticks to see if it would withstand scrutiny. but even after months of working feverishly — sleeping in our offices and not going home, candy bars for dinner, coffee by the bucketful — physicists are machines for turning coffee into diagrams — this little bump would not go away. so after a few months, we presented our little bump to the world with a very clear message: this little bump is interesting but it's not definitive, so let's keep an eye on it as we take more data. so we were trying to be extremely cool about it.and the world ran with it anyway. the news loved it. people said it reminded them of the little bump that was shown on the way toward the higgs boson discovery. better than that, my theorist colleagues — i love my theorist colleagues — my theorist colleagues wrote 500 papers about this little bump. the world of particle physics had been flipped on its head. but what was it about this particular bump that caused thousands of physicists to collectively lose their cool? this little bump was unique. this little bump indicated that we were seeing an unexpectedly large number of collisions whose debris consisted of only two photons, two particles of light. and that's rare.particle collisions are not like automobile collisions. they have different rules. when two particles collide at almost the speed of light, the quantum world takes over. and in the quantum world, these two particles can briefly create a new particle that lives for a tiny fraction of a second before splitting into other particles that hit our detector. imagine a car collision where the two cars vanish upon impact, a bicycle appears in their place — and then that bicycle explodes into two skateboards, which hit our detector. hopefully, not literally. they're very expensive.events where only two photons hit out detector are very rare. and because of the special quantum properties of photons, there's a very small number of possible new particles — these mythical bicycles — that can give birth to only two photons. but one of these options is huge, and it has to do with that long-standing question that bothered me as a tiny little kid, about gravity.gravity may seem super strong to you, but it's actually crazily weak compared to the other forces of nature. i can briefly beat gravity when i jump, but i can't pick a proton out of my hand. the strength of gravity compared to the other forces of nature? it's 10 to the minus 39. that's a decimal with 39 zeros after it.worse than that, all of the other known forces of nature are perfectly described by this thing we call the standard model, which is our current best description of nature at its smallest scales, and quite frankly, one of the most successful achievements of humankind — except for gravity, which is absent from the standard model. it's crazy. it's almost as though most of gravity has gone missing. we feel a little bit of it, but where's the rest of it? no one knows.but one theoretical explanation proposes a wild solution. you and i — even you in the back — we live in three dimensions of space. i hope that's a non-controversial statement. all of the known particles also live in three dimensions of space. in fact, a particle is just another name for an excitation in a three-dimensional field; a localized wobbling in space. more importantly, all the math that we use to describe all this stuff assumes that there are only three dimensions of space. but math is math, and we can play around with our math however we want. and people have been playing around with extra dimensions of space for a very long time, but it's always been an abstract mathematical concept. i mean, just look around you — you at the back, look around — there's clearly only three dimensions of space.but what if that's not true? what if the missing gravity is leaking into an extra-spatial dimension that's invisible to you and i? what if gravity is just as strong as the other forces if you were to view it in this extra-spatial dimension, and what you and i experience is a tiny slice of gravity make it seem very weak? if this were true, we would have to expand our standard model of particles to include an extra particle, a hyperdimensional particle of gravity, a special graviton that lives in extra-spatial dimensions.i see the looks on your faces. you should be asking me the question, "how in the world are we going to test this crazy, science fiction idea, stuck as we are in three dimensions?" the way we always do, by slamming together two protons — hard enough that the collision reverberates into any extra-spatial dimensions that might be there, momentarily creating this hyperdimensional graviton that then snaps back into the three dimensions of the lhc and spits off two photons, two particles of light. and this hypothetical, extra-dimensional graviton is one of the only possible, hypothetical new particles that has the special quantum properties that could give birth to our little, two-photon bump.so, the possibility of explaining the mysteries of gravity and of discovering extra dimensions of space — perhaps now you get a sense as to why thousands of physics geeks collectively lost their cool over our little, two-photon bump. a discovery of this type would rewrite the textbooks. but remember, the message from us experimentalists that actually were doing this work at the time, was very clear: we need more data. with more data, the little bump will either turn into a nice, crisp nobel prize — or the extra data will fill in the space around the bump and turn it into a nice, smooth line.so we took more data, and with five times the data, several months later, our little bump turned into a smooth line. the news reported on a "huge disappointment," on "faded hopes," and on particle physicists "being sad." given the tone of the coverage, you'd think that we had decided to shut down the lhc and go home. but that's not what we did. but why not? i mean, if i didn't discover a particle — and i didn't — if i didn't discover a particle, why am i here talking to you? why didn't i just hang my head in shame and go home?particle physicists are explorers. and very much of what we do is cartography. let me put it this way: forget about the lhc for a second. imagine you are a space explorer arriving at a distant planet, searching for aliens. what is your first task? to immediately orbit the planet, land, take a quick look around for any big, obvious signs of life, and report back to home base. that's the stage we're at now. we took a first look at the lhc for any new, big, obvious-to-spot particles, and we can report that there are none. we saw a weird-looking alien bump on a distant mountain, but once we got closer, we saw it was a rock.but then what do we do? do we just give up and fly away? absolutely not; we would be terrible scientists if we did. no, we spend the next couple of decades exploring, mapping out the territory, sifting through the sand with a fine instrument, peeking under every stone, drilling under the surface. new particles can either show up immediately as big, obvious-to-spot bumps, or they can only reveal themselves after years of data taking.humanity has just begun its exploration at the lhc at this big high energy, and we have much searching to do. but what if, even after 10 or 20 years, we still find no new particles? we build a bigger machine. we search at higher energies. we search at higher energies. planning is already underway for a 100-kilometer tunnel that will collide particles at 10 times the energy of the lhc. we don't decide where nature places new particles. we only decide to keep exploring. but what if, even after a 100-kilometer tunnel or a 500-kilometer tunnel or a 10,000-kilometer collider floating in space between the earth and the moon, we still find no new particles? then perhaps we're doing particle physics wrong. perhaps we need to rethink things. maybe we need more resources, technology, expertise than what we currently have. we already use artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques in parts of the lhc, but imagine designing a particle physics experiment using such sophisticated algorithms that it could teach itself to discover a hyperdimensional graviton.but what if? what if the ultimate question: what if even artificial intelligence can't help us answer our questions? what if these open questions, for centuries, are destined to be unanswered for the foreseeable future? what if the stuff that's bothered me since i was a little kid is destined to be unanswered in my lifetime? then that ... will be even more fascinating.we will be forced to think in completely new ways. we'll have to go back to our assumptions, and determine if there was a flaw somewhere. and we'll need to encourage more people to join us in studying science since we need fresh eyes on these century-old problems. i don't have the answers, and i'm still searching for them. but someone — maybe she's in school right now, maybe she's not even born yet — could eventually guide us to see physics in a completely new way, and to point out that perhaps we're just asking the wrong questions. which would not be the end of physics, but a novel beginning.thank you. <title = "Are you a giver or a taker?">
<tags = "['anthropology', 'behavioral economics', 'business', 'collaboration', 'community', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'personality', 'psychology', 'self', 'society', 'work']">
<occupation = "Organizational psychologist">
i want you to look around the room for a minute and try to find the most paranoid person here — and then i want you to point at that person for me. ok, don't actually do it. but, as an organizational psychologist, i spend a lot of time in workplaces, and i find paranoia everywhere. paranoia is caused by people that i call "takers." takers are self-serving in their interactions. it's all about what can you do for me. the opposite is a giver. it's somebody who approaches most interactions by asking, "what can i do for you?"i wanted to give you a chance to think about your own style. we all have moments of giving and taking. your style is how you treat most of the people most of the time, your default. i have a short test you can take to figure out if you're more of a giver or a taker, and you can take it right now.[the narcissist test][step 1: take a moment to think about yourself.] [step 2: if you made it to step 2, you are not a narcissist.] this is the only thing i will say today that has no data behind it, but i am convinced the longer it takes for you to laugh at this cartoon, the more worried we should be that you're a taker. of course, not all takers are narcissists. some are just givers who got burned one too many times. then there's another kind of taker that we won't be addressing today, and that's called a psychopath. i was curious, though, about how common these extremes are, and so i surveyed over 30,000 people across industries around the world's cultures. and i found that most people are right in the middle between giving and taking. they choose this third style called "matching." if you're a matcher, you try to keep an even balance of give and take: quid pro quo — i'll do something for you if you do something for me. and that seems like a safe way to live your life. but is it the most effective and productive way to live your life? the answer to that question is a very definitive ... maybe. i studied dozens of organizations, thousands of people. i had engineers measuring their productivity. i looked at medical students' grades — even salespeople's revenue. and, unexpectedly, the worst performers in each of these jobs were the givers. the engineers who got the least work done were the ones who did more favors than they got back. they were so busy doing other people's jobs, they literally ran out of time and energy to get their own work completed. in medical school, the lowest grades belong to the students who agree most strongly with statements like, "i love helping others," which suggests the doctor you ought to trust is the one who came to med school with no desire to help anybody. and then in sales, too, the lowest revenue accrued in the most generous salespeople. i actually reached out to one of those salespeople who had a very high giver score. and i asked him, "why do you suck at your job —" i didn't ask it that way, but — "what's the cost of generosity in sales?" and he said, "well, i just care so deeply about my customers that i would never sell them one of our crappy products." so just out of curiosity, how many of you self-identify more as givers than takers or matchers? raise your hands. ok, it would have been more before we talked about these data.but actually, it turns out there's a twist here, because givers are often sacrificing themselves, but they make their organizations better. we have a huge body of evidence — many, many studies looking at the frequency of giving behavior that exists in a team or an organization — and the more often people are helping and sharing their knowledge and providing mentoring, the better organizations do on every metric we can measure: higher profits, customer satisfaction, employee retention — even lower operating expenses. so givers spend a lot of time trying to help other people and improve the team, and then, unfortunately, they suffer along the way. i want to talk about what it takes to build cultures where givers actually get to succeed.so i wondered, then, if givers are the worst performers, who are the best performers? let me start with the good news: it's not the takers. takers tend to rise quickly but also fall quickly in most jobs. and they fall at the hands of matchers. if you're a matcher, you believe in "an eye for an eye" — a just world. and so when you meet a taker, you feel like it's your mission in life to just punish the hell out of that person. and that way justice gets served.well, most people are matchers. and that means if you're a taker, it tends to catch up with you eventually; what goes around will come around. and so the logical conclusion is: it must be the matchers who are the best performers. but they're not. in every job, in every organization i've ever studied, the best results belong to the givers again.take a look at some data i gathered from hundreds of salespeople, tracking their revenue. what you can see is that the givers go to both extremes. they make up the majority of people who bring in the lowest revenue, but also the highest revenue. the same patterns were true for engineers' productivity and medical students' grades. givers are overrepresented at the bottom and at the top of every success metric that i can track. which raises the question: how do we create a world where more of these givers get to excel? i want to talk about how to do that, not just in businesses, but also in nonprofits, schools — even governments. are you ready?(cheers)i was going to do it anyway, but i appreciate the enthusiasm. the first thing that's really critical is to recognize that givers are your most valuable people, but if they're not careful, they burn out. so you have to protect the givers in your midst. and i learned a great lesson about this from fortune's best networker. it's the guy, not the cat. his name is adam rifkin. he's a very successful serial entrepreneur who spends a huge amount of his time helping other people. and his secret weapon is the five-minute favor. adam said, "you don't have to be mother teresa or gandhi to be a giver. you just have to find small ways to add large value to other people's lives." that could be as simple as making an introduction between two people who could benefit from knowing each other. it could be sharing your knowledge or giving a little bit of feedback. or it might be even something as basic as saying, "you know, i'm going to try and figure out if i can recognize somebody whose work has gone unnoticed." and those five-minute favors are really critical to helping givers set boundaries and protect themselves.the second thing that matters if you want to build a culture where givers succeed, is you actually need a culture where help-seeking is the norm; where people ask a lot. this may hit a little too close to home for some of you.[so in all your relationships, you always have to be the giver?] what you see with successful givers is they recognize that it's ok to be a receiver, too. if you run an organization, we can actually make this easier. we can make it easier for people to ask for help. a couple colleagues and i studied hospitals. we found that on certain floors, nurses did a lot of help-seeking, and on other floors, they did very little of it. the factor that stood out on the floors where help-seeking was common, where it was the norm, was there was just one nurse whose sole job it was to help other nurses on the unit. when that role was available, nurses said, "it's not embarrassing, it's not vulnerable to ask for help — it's actually encouraged."help-seeking isn't important just for protecting the success and the well-being of givers. it's also critical to getting more people to act like givers, because the data say that somewhere between 75 and 90 percent of all giving in organizations starts with a request. but a lot of people don't ask. they don't want to look incompetent, they don't know where to turn, they don't want to burden others. yet if nobody ever asks for help, you have a lot of frustrated givers in your organization who would love to step up and contribute, if they only knew who could benefit and how.but i think the most important thing, if you want to build a culture of successful givers, is to be thoughtful about who you let onto your team. i figured, you want a culture of productive generosity, you should hire a bunch of givers. but i was surprised to discover, actually, that that was not right — that the negative impact of a taker on a culture is usually double to triple the positive impact of a giver. think about it this way: one bad apple can spoil a barrel, but one good egg just does not make a dozen. i don't know what that means — but i hope you do.no — let even one taker into a team, and you will see that the givers will stop helping. they'll say, "i'm surrounded by a bunch of snakes and sharks. why should i contribute?" whereas if you let one giver into a team, you don't get an explosion of generosity. more often, people are like, "great! that person can do all our work." so, effective hiring and screening and team building is not about bringing in the givers; it's about weeding out the takers. if you can do that well, you'll be left with givers and matchers. the givers will be generous because they don't have to worry about the consequences. and the beauty of the matchers is that they follow the norm.so how do you catch a taker before it's too late? we're actually pretty bad at figuring out who's a taker, especially on first impressions. there's a personality trait that throws us off. it's called agreeableness, one the major dimensions of personality across cultures. agreeable people are warm and friendly, they're nice, they're polite. you find a lot of them in canada — where there was actually a national contest to come up with a new canadian slogan and fill in the blank, "as canadian as ..." i thought the winning entry was going to be, "as canadian as maple syrup," or, "... ice hockey." but no, canadians voted for their new national slogan to be — i kid you not — "as canadian as possible under the circumstances." now for those of you who are highly agreeable, or maybe slightly canadian, you get this right away. how could i ever say i'm any one thing when i'm constantly adapting to try to please other people? disagreeable people do less of it. they're more critical, skeptical, challenging, and far more likely than their peers to go to law school. that's not a joke, that's actually an empirical fact. so i always assumed that agreeable people were givers and disagreeable people were takers. but then i gathered the data, and i was stunned to find no correlation between those traits, because it turns out that agreeableness-disagreeableness is your outer veneer: how pleasant is it to interact with you? whereas giving and taking are more of your inner motives: what are your values? what are your intentions toward others?if you really want to judge people accurately, you have to get to the moment every consultant in the room is waiting for, and draw a two-by-two. the agreeable givers are easy to spot: they say yes to everything. the disagreeable takers are also recognized quickly, although you might call them by a slightly different name. we forget about the other two combinations. there are disagreeable givers in our organizations. there are people who are gruff and tough on the surface but underneath have others' best interests at heart. or as an engineer put it, "oh, disagreeable givers — like somebody with a bad user interface but a great operating system." if that helps you. disagreeable givers are the most undervalued people in our organizations, because they're the ones who give the critical feedback that no one wants to hear but everyone needs to hear. we need to do a much better job valuing these people as opposed to writing them off early, and saying, "eh, kind of prickly, must be a selfish taker."the other combination we forget about is the deadly one — the agreeable taker, also known as the faker. this is the person who's nice to your face, and then will stab you right in the back. and my favorite way to catch these people in the interview process is to ask the question, "can you give me the names of four people whose careers you have fundamentally improved?" the takers will give you four names, and they will all be more influential than them, because takers are great at kissing up and then kicking down. givers are more likely to name people who are below them in a hierarchy, who don't have as much power, who can do them no good. and let's face it, you all know you can learn a lot about character by watching how someone treats their restaurant server or their uber driver.so if we do all this well, if we can weed takers out of organizations, if we can make it safe to ask for help, if we can protect givers from burnout and make it ok for them to be ambitious in pursuing their own goals as well as trying to help other people, we can actually change the way that people define success. instead of saying it's all about winning a competition, people will realize success is really more about contribution.i believe that the most meaningful way to succeed is to help other people succeed. and if we can spread that belief, we can actually turn paranoia upside down. there's a name for that. it's called "pronoia." pronoia is the delusional belief that other people are plotting your well-being. that they're going around behind your back and saying exceptionally glowing things about you. the great thing about a culture of givers is that's not a delusion — it's reality. i want to live in a world where givers succeed, and i hope you will help me create that world.thank you. <title = "The world doesn't need more nuclear weapons">
<tags = "['collaboration', 'fear', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'humanity', 'nuclear energy', 'nuclear weapons', 'peace', 'security', 'technology', 'terrorism', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Nuclear reformer">
let me ask you all a question. how much weapons-grade nuclear material do you think it would take to level a city the size of san francisco? how many of you think it would be an amount about the size of this suitcase? ok. and how about this minibus?all right. well actually, under the right circumstances, an amount of highly enriched uranium about the size of your morning latte would be enough to kill 100,000 people instantly. hundreds of thousands of others would become horribly ill, and parts of the city would be uninhabitable for years, if not for decades.but you can forget that nuclear latte, because today's nuclear weapons are hundreds of times more powerful even than those we dropped on hiroshima and nagasaki. and even a limited nuclear war involving, say, tens of nuclear weapons, could lead to the end of all life on the planet.so it's really important that you know that right now we have over 15,000 nuclear weapons in the hands of nine nations. and if you live in a city or near a military facility, one is likely pointed right at you. in fact, if you live in any of the rural areas where nuclear weapons are stored globally, one is likely pointed at you. about 1,800 of these weapons are on high alert, which means they can be launched within 15 minutes of a presidential command.so i know this is a bummer of an issue, and maybe you have that — what was it? — psychic fatigue that we heard about a little bit earlier. so i'm going to switch gears for just a second, and i'm going to talk about my imaginary friend, who i like to think of as jasmine, just for a moment.jasmine, at the age of 25, is part of a generation that is more politically and socially engaged than anything we've seen in 50 years. she and her friends think of themselves as change agents and leaders and activists. i think of them as generation possible. they regularly protest about the issues they care about, but nuclear weapons are not one of them, which makes sense, because jasmine was born in 1991, at the end of the cold war. so she didn't grow up hearing a lot about nuclear weapons. she never had to duck and cover under her desk at school. for jasmine, a fallout shelter is an app in the android store. nuclear weapons help win games. and that is really a shame, because right now, we need generation possible to help us make some really important decisions about nuclear weapons.for instance, will we further reduce our nuclear arsenals globally, or will we spend billions, maybe a trillion dollars, to modernize them so they last throughout the 21st century, so that by the time jasmine is my age, she's talking to her children and maybe even her grandchildren about the threat of nuclear holocaust? and if you're paying any attention at all to cyberthreats, or, for instance, if you've read about the stuxnet virus or, for god's sake, if you've ever had an email account or a yahoo account or a phone hacked, you can imagine the whole new world of hurt that could be triggered by modernization in a period of cyberwarfare.now, if you're paying attention to the money, a trillion dollars could go a long way to feeding and educating and employing people, all of which could reduce the threat of nuclear war to begin with. so — this is really crucial right now, because nuclear weapons — they're vulnerable. we have solid evidence that terrorists are trying to get ahold of them. just this last spring, when four retirees and two taxi drivers were arrested in the republic of georgia for trying to sell nuclear materials for 200 million dollars, they demonstrated that the black market for this stuff is alive and well. and it's really important, because there have been dozens of accidents involving nuclear weapons, and i bet most of us have never heard anything about them.just here in the united states, we've dropped nuclear weapons on the carolinas twice. in one case, one of the bombs, which fell out of an air force plane, didn't detonate because the nuclear core was stored somewhere else on the plane. in another case, the weapon did arm when it hit the ground, and five of the switches designed to keep it from detonating failed. luckily, the sixth one didn't. but if that's not enough to get your attention, there was the 1995 black brant incident. that's when russian radar technicians saw what they thought was a us nuclear missile streaking towards russian airspace. it later turned out to be a norwegian rocket collecting data about the northern lights. but at that time, russian president boris yeltsin came within five minutes of launching a full-scale retaliatory nuclear attack against the united states.so, most of the world's nuclear nations have committed to getting rid of these weapons of mass destruction. but consider this: the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which is the most widely adopted arms control treaty in history with 190 signatories, sets no specific date by which the world's nuclear-armed nations will get rid of their nuclear weapons.now, when john f. kennedy sent a man to the moon and decided to bring him back, or decided to do both those things, he didn't say, "hey, whenever you guys get to it." he gave us a deadline. he gave us a challenge that would have been incredible just a few years earlier. and with that challenge, he inspired scientists and marketers, astronauts and schoolteachers. he gave us a vision. but along with that vision, he also tried to give us — and most people don't know this, either — he tried to give us a partner in the form of our fiercest cold war rival, the soviet union. because part of kennedy's vision for the apollo program was that it be a cooperation, not a competition, with the soviets. and apparently, nikita khrushchev, the soviet premier, agreed. but before that cooperation could be realized, kennedy was assassinated, and that part of the vision was deferred.but the promise of joint innovation between these two nuclear superpowers wasn't totally extinguished. because in 1991, which is the year that jasmine was born and the soviet union fell, these two nations engaged in a project that genuinely does seem incredible today in the truest sense of that word, which is that the us sent cash to the russians when they needed it most, to secure loose nuclear materials and to employ out-of-work nuclear scientists. they worked alongside american scientists to convert weapons-grade uranium into the type of fuel that can be used for nuclear power instead. they called it, "megatons to megawatts." so the result is that for over 20 years, our two nations had a program that meant that one in 10 lightbulbs in the united states was essentially fueled by former russian warheads.so, together these two nations did something truly audacious. but the good news is, the global community has the chance to do something just as audacious today. to get rid of nuclear weapons and to end the supply of the materials required to produce them, some experts tell me would take 30 years. it would take a renaissance of sorts, the kinds of innovation that, for better or worse, underpinned both the manhattan project, which gave rise to nuclear weapons, and the megatons to megawatts program. it would take design constraints. these are fundamental to creativity, things like a platform for international collaboration; a date certain, which is a forcing mechanism; and a positive vision that inspires action. it would take us to 2045.now, 2045 happens to be the 100th anniversary of the birth of nuclear weapons in the new mexico desert. but it's also an important date for another reason. it's predicted to be the advent of the singularity, a new moment in human development, where the lines between artificial intelligence and human intelligence blur, where computing and consciousness become almost indistinguishable and advanced technologies help us solve the 21st century's greatest problems: hunger, energy, poverty, ushering in an era of abundance. and we all get to go to space on our way to becoming a multi-planetary species.now, the people who really believe this vision are the first to say they don't yet know precisely how we're going to get there. but the values behind their vision and the willingness to ask "how might we?" have inspired a generation of innovators. they're working backward from the outcomes they want, using the creative problem-solving methods of collaborative design. they're busting through obstacles. they're redefining what we all consider possible.but here's the thing: that vision of abundance isn't compatible with a world that still relies on a 20th-century nuclear doctrine called "mutually assured destruction." it has to be about building the foundations for the 22nd century. it has to be about strategies for mutually assured prosperity or, at the very least, mutually assured survival.now, every day, i get to meet people who are real pioneers in the field of nuclear threats. as you can see, many of them are young women, and they're doing fiercely interesting stuff, like mareena robinson snowden here, who is developing new ways, better ways, to detect nuclear warheads, which will help us overcome a critical hurdle to international disarmament. or melissa hanham, who is using satellite imaging to make sense of what's going on around far-flung nuclear sites. or we have beatrice fihn in europe, who has been campaigning to make nuclear weapons illegal in international courts of law, and just won a big victory at the un last week. and yet, and yet, with all of our talk in this culture about moon shots, too few members of generation possible and those of us who mentor them are taking on nuclear weapons. it's as if there's a taboo. but i remember something kennedy said that has really stuck with me, and that is something to the effect that humans can be as big as the solutions to all the problems we've created. no problem of human destiny, he said, is beyond human beings. i believe that. and i bet a lot of you here believe that, too. and i know generation possible believes it.so it's time to commit to a date. let's end the nuclear weapons chapter on the 100th anniversary of its inception. after all, by 2045, we will have held billions of people hostage to the threat of nuclear annihilation. surely, 100 years will have been enough. surely, a century of economic development and the development of military strategy will have given us better ways to manage global conflict. surely, if ever there was a global moon shot worth supporting, this is it.now, in the face of real threats — for instance, north korea's recent nuclear weapons tests, which fly in the face of sanctions — reasonable people disagree about whether we should maintain some number of nuclear weapons to deter aggression. but the question is: what's the magic number? is it a thousand? is it a hundred? ten? and then we have to ask: who should be responsible for them? i think we can agree, however, that having 15,000 of them represents a greater global threat to jasmine's generation than a promise.so it's time we make a promise of a world in which we've broken the stranglehold that nuclear weapons have on our imaginations; in which we invest in the creative solutions that come from working backward from the future we desperately want, rather than plodding forward from a present that brings all of the mental models and biases of the past with it. it's time we pledge our resources as leaders across the spectrum to work on this old problem in new ways, to ask, "how might we?" how might we make good on a promise of greater security for jasmine's generation in a world beyond nuclear weapons? i truly hope you will join us.thank you. thank you. <title = "Want kids to learn well? Feed them well">
<tags = "['children', 'community', 'education', 'food', 'health', 'inequality', 'mental health', 'personal growth', 'policy', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Food entrepreneur">
i am a chef and a food policy guy, but i come from a whole family of teachers. my sister is a special ed teacher in chicago. my father just retired after 25 years teaching fifth grade. my aunt and uncle were professors. my cousins all teach. everybody in my family, basically, teaches except for me. they taught me that the only way to get the right answers is to ask the right questions. so what are the right questions when it comes to improving the educational outcomes for our children? there's obviously many important questions, but i think the following is a good place to start: what do we think the connection is between a child's growing mind and their growing body? what can we expect our kids to learn if their diets are full of sugar and empty of nutrients? what can they possibly learn if their bodies are literally going hungry? and with all the resources that we are pouring into schools, we should stop and ask ourselves: are we really setting our kids up for success?now, a few years ago, i was a judge on a cooking competition called "chopped." four chefs compete with mystery ingredients to see who can cook the best dishes. except for this episode — it was a very special one. instead of four overzealous chefs trying to break into the limelight — something that i would know nothing about —  these chefs were school chefs; you know, the women that you used to call "lunch ladies," but the ones i insist we call "school chefs." now, these women — god bless these women — spend their day cooking for thousands of kids, breakfast and lunch, with only $2.68 per lunch, with only about a dollar of that actually going to the food. in this episode, the main-course mystery ingredient was quinoa. now, i know it's been a long time since most of you have had a school lunch, and we've made a lot of progress on nutrition, but quinoa still is not a staple in most school cafeterias. so this was a challenge. but the dish that i will never forget was cooked by a woman named cheryl barbara. cheryl was the nutrition director at high school in the community in connecticut. she cooked this delicious pasta. it was amazing. it was a pappardelle with italian sausage, kale, parmesan cheese. it was delicious, like, restaurant-quality good, except — she basically just threw the quinoa, pretty much uncooked, into the dish. it was a strange choice, and it was super crunchy.  so i took on the tv accusatory judge thing that you're supposed to do, and i asked her why she did that.cheryl responded, "well, first, i don't know what quinoa is."  "but i do know that it's a monday, and that in my school, at high school in the community, i always cook pasta."see, cheryl explained that for many of her kids, there were no meals on the weekends. no meals on saturday. no meals on sunday, either. so she cooked pasta because she wanted to make sure she cooked something she knew her children would eat. something that would stick to their ribs, she said. something that would fill them up. cheryl talked about how, by the time monday came, her kids' hunger pangs were so intense that they couldn't even begin to think about learning. food was the only thing on their mind. the only thing. and unfortunately, the stats — they tell the same story.so, let's put this into the context of a child.and we're going to focus on the most important meal of the day, breakfast. meet allison. she's 12 years old, she's smart as a whip and she wants to be a physicist when she grows up. if allison goes to a school that serves a nutritious breakfast to all of their kids, here's what's going to follow. her chances of getting a nutritious meal, one with fruit and milk, one lower in sugar and salt, dramatically increase. allison will have a lower rate of obesity than the average kid. she'll have to visit the nurse less. she'll have lower levels of anxiety and depression. she'll have better behavior. she'll have better attendance, and she'll show up on time more often. why? well, because there's a good meal waiting for her at school. overall, allison is in much better health than the average school kid.so what about that kid who doesn't have a nutritious breakfast waiting for him? well, meet tommy. he's also 12. he's a wonderful kid. he wants to be a doctor. by the time tommy is in kindergarten, he's already underperforming in math. by the time he's in third grade, he's got lower math and reading scores. by the time he's 11, it's more likely that tommy will have to have repeated a grade. research shows that kids who do not have consistent nourishment, particularly at breakfast, have poor cognitive function overall.so how widespread is this problem? well, unfortunately, it's pervasive. let me give you two stats that seem like they're on opposite ends of the issue, but are actually two sides of the same coin. on the one hand, one in six americans are food insecure, including 16 million children — almost 20 percent — are food insecure. in this city alone, in new york city, 474,000 kids under the age of 18 face hunger every year. it's crazy. on the other hand, diet and nutrition is the number one cause of preventable death and disease in this country, by far. and fully a third of the kids that we've been talking about tonight are on track to have diabetes in their lifetime. now, what's hard to put together but is true is that, many times, these are the same children. so they fill up on the unhealthy and cheap calories that surround them in their communities and that their families can afford. but then by the end of the month, food stamps run out or hours get cut at work, and they don't have the money to cover the basic cost of food.but we should be able to solve this problem, right? we know what the answers are. as part of my work at the white house, we instituted a program that for all schools that had 40 percent more low-income kids, we could serve breakfast and lunch to every kid in that school. for free.this program has been incredibly successful, because it helped us overcome a very difficult barrier when it came to getting kids a nutritious breakfast. and that was the barrier of stigma. see, schools serve breakfast before school, and it was only available for the poor kids. so everybody knew who was poor and who needed government help. now, all kids, no matter how much or how little their parents make, have a lot of pride. so what happened? well, the schools that have implemented this program saw an increase in math and reading scores by 17.5 percent. 17.5 percent. and research shows that when kids have a consistent, nutritious breakfast, their chances of graduating increase by 20 percent. 20 percent. when we give our kids the nourishment they need, we give them the chance to thrive, both in the classroom and beyond.now, you don't have to trust me on this, but you should talk to donna martin. i love donna martin. donna martin is the school nutrition director at burke county in waynesboro, georgia. burke county is one of the poorest districts in the fifth-poorest state in the country, and about 100 percent of donna's students live at or below the poverty line. a few years ago, donna decided to get out ahead of the new standards that were coming, and overhaul her nutrition standards. she improved and added fruit and vegetables and whole grains. she served breakfast in the classroom to all of her kids. and she implemented a dinner program. why? well, many of her kids didn't have dinner when they went home.so how did they respond? well, the kids loved the food. they loved the better nutrition, and they loved not being hungry. but donna's biggest supporter came from an unexpected place. his name from eric parker, and he was the head football coach for the burke county bears. now, coach parker had coached mediocre teams for years. the bears often ended in the middle of the pack — a big disappointment in one of the most passionate football states in the union. but the year donna changed the menus, the bears not only won their division, they went on to win the state championship, beating the peach county trojans 28-14. and coach parker, he credited that championship to donna martin.when we give our kids the basic nourishment, they're going to thrive. and it's not just up to the cheryl barbaras and the donna martins of the world. it's on all of us. and feeding our kids the basic nutrition is just the starting point. what i've laid out is really a model for so many of the most pressing issues that we face. if we focus on the simple goal of properly nourishing ourselves, we could see a world that is more stable and secure; we could dramatically improve our economic productivity; we could transform our health care and we could go a long way in ensuring that the earth can provide for generations to come. food is that place where our collective efforts can have the greatest impact.so we have to ask ourselves: what is the right question? what would happen if we fed ourselves more nutritious, more sustainably grown food? what would be the impact? cheryl barbara, donna martin, coach parker and the burke county bears — i think they know the answer.thank you guys so very much. <title = "The lies we tell pregnant women">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'children', 'communication', 'family', 'feminism', 'gender', 'health', 'humanity', 'identity', 'parenting', 'sex', 'society', 'teaching', 'women']">
<occupation = "Sex researcher">
we're going to share a lot of secrets today, you and i, and in doing so, i hope that we can lift some of the shame many of us feel about sex.how many here have ever been catcalled by a stranger? lots of women. for me, the time i remember best is when that stranger was a student of mine. he came up to me after class that night and his words confirmed what i already knew:"i am so sorry, professor. if i had known it was you, i would never have said those things." i wasn't a person to him until i was his professor. this concept, called objectification, is the foundation of sexism, and we see it reinforced through every aspect of our lives. we see it in the government that refuses to punish men for raping women. we see it in advertisements. how many of you have seen an advertisement that uses a woman's breast to sell an entirely unrelated product? or movie after movie after movie that portrays women as only love interests? these examples might seem inconsequential and harmless, but they're insidious, slowly building into a culture that refuses to see women as people. we see this in the school that sends home a 10-year-old girl because her clothes were a distraction to boys trying to learn, or the government that refuses to punish men for raping women over and over, or the woman who is killed because she asked a man to stop grinding on her on the dance floor.media plays a large role in perpetuating the objectification of women. let's consider the classic romantic comedy. we're typically introduced to two kinds of women in these movies, two kinds of desirable women, anyway. the first is the sexy bombshell. this is the unbelievably gorgeous woman with the perfect body. our leading man has no trouble identifying her and even less trouble having sex with her. the second is our leading lady, the beautiful but demure woman our leading man falls in love with despite not noticing her at first or not liking her if he did. the first is the slut. she is to be consumed and forgotten. she is much too available. the second is desirable but modest, and therefore worthy of our leading man's future babies. marriage material. we're actually told that women have two roles, but these two roles have a difficult time existing within the same woman.on the rare occasion that i share with a new acquaintance that i study sex, if they don't end the conversation right then, they're usually pretty intrigued."oh. tell me more."so i do."i'm really interested in studying the sexual behaviors of pregnant and postpartum couples." at this point i get a different kind of response. "oh. huh. do pregnant people even have sex? have you thought about studying sexual desire or orgasms? that would be interesting, and sexy."tell me. what are the first words that come to mind when you picture a pregnant woman? i asked this question in a survey of over 500 adults, and most responded with "belly" or "round" and "cute." this didn't surprise me too much. what else do we label as cute? babies. puppies. kittens. the elderly. right? when we label an adult as cute, though, we take away a lot of their intelligence, their complexity. we reduce them to childlike qualities. i also asked heterosexual men to imagine a woman that they're partnered with is pregnant, and then asked women to imagine that they are pregnant, and then tell me the first words that come to mind when they imagine having sex. most of the responses were negative. "gross." "awkward." "not sexy." "odd." "uncomfortable." "how?" "not worth the trouble." "not worth the risk."that last one really stuck with me. we might think that because we divorce pregnant women and moms from sexuality, we are removing the constraints of sexual objectification. they experience less sexism. right? not exactly. what happens instead is a different kind of objectification. in my efforts to explain this to others, one conversation led to the venus of willendorf, a paleolithic figurine scholars assumed was a goddess of love and beauty, hence the name venus. this theory was later revised, though, when scholars noted the sculptor's obvious focus on the figurine's reproductive features: large breasts, considered ideal for nursing; a round, possibly pregnant belly; the remnants of red dye, alluding to menstruation or birth. they also assumed that she was meant to be held or placed lying down because her tiny feet don't allow her to be freestanding. she also had no face. for this reason, it was assumed that she was a representation of fertility and not a portrait of a person. she was an object. in the history of her interpretation, she went from object of ideal beauty and love to object of reproduction.i think this transition speaks more about the scholars who have interpreted her purpose than the actual purpose of the figurine herself. when a woman becomes pregnant, she leaves the realm of men's sexual desire and slides into her reproductive and child-rearing role. in doing so, she also becomes the property of the community, considered very important but only because she's pregnant. right? i've taken to calling this the willendorf effect, and once again we see it reinforced in many aspects of her life.has anyone here ever been visibly pregnant? yeah. lots of you, right? so how many of you ever had a stranger touch your belly during pregnancy, maybe without even asking your permission first? or told what you can and cannot eat by somebody who is not your doctor, your medical care provider? or asked private questions about your birth plan? and then told why those choices are all wrong? yeah, me too. or had a server refuse to bring you a glass of wine? this one might give you pause, i know, but stay with me. this is a huge secret. it is actually safe to drink in moderation during pregnancy. many of us don't know this because doctors don't trust pregnant women with this secret — especially if she's less educated or a woman of color.what this tells us is, this willendorf effect, it's also classist and racist. it's present when the government reminds women with every new anti-choice bill that the contents of her uterus are not her own, or when an ob-gyn says, "while it's safe to have sex during pregnancy, sometimes you never know. better safe than sorry, right?" she's denied basic privacy and bodily autonomy under the guise of "be a good mother." we don't trust her to make her own decisions. she's cute, remember? when we tell women that sexual pleasure — excuse me.when we tell women that sex isn't worth the risk during pregnancy, what we're telling her is that her sexual pleasure doesn't matter. so what we are telling her is that she in fact doesn't matter, even though the needs of her fetus are not at odds with her own needs.so medical providers, such as the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists have the opportunity to educate about the safety of sex during pregnancy. so what do the experts say? acog actually has no public official statement about the safety of sex during pregnancy. guidance from the mayo clinic is generally positive but presented with a caveat: "although most women can safely have sex throughout pregnancy, sometimes it's best to be cautious."some women don't want to have sex during pregnancy, and that's ok. some women do want to have sex during pregnancy, and that's ok, too. what needs to stop is society telling women what they can and cannot do with their bodies. pregnant women are not faceless, identity-less vessels of reproduction who can't stand on their own two feet. but the truth is, the real secret is, we tell all women that their sexual pleasure doesn't matter. we refuse to even acknowledge that women who have sex with women or women who don't want children even exist."oh, it's just a phase ...she just needs the right man to come along."every time a woman has sex simply because it feels good, it is revolutionary. she is revolutionary. she is pushing back against society's insistence that she exist simply for men's pleasure or for reproduction. a woman who prioritizes her sexual needs is scary, because a woman who prioritizes her sexual needs prioritizes herself. that is a woman demanding that she be treated as an equal. that is a woman who insists that you make room for her at the table of power, and that is the most terrifying of all because we can't make room for her without some of us giving up the extra space we hold. i have one last secret for you. i am the mother of two boys and we could use your help. even though my boys hear me say regularly that it's important for men to recognize women as equals and they see their father modeling this, we need what happens in the world to reinforce what happens in our home. this is not a men's problem or a women's problem. this is everyone's problem, and we all play a role in dismantling systems of inequality. for starters, we have got to stop telling women what they can and cannot do with their bodies. this includes not treating pregnant women like community property. if you don't know her, don't even ask to touch her belly. you wouldn't anybody else. don't tell her what she can and cannot eat. don't ask her private details about her medical decisions. this also includes understanding that even if you are personally against abortion, you can still fight for a woman's right to choose. when it comes to women's equality, the two need not oppose one another. if you're somebody who has sex with women, prioritize her pleasure. if you don't know how, ask. if you have children — have conversations about sex as early as possible, because kids don't look up s-e-x in the dictionary anymore. they look it up on the internet. and when you're having those conversations about sex, don't center them on reproduction only. people have sex for many reasons, some because they want a baby, but most of us have sex because it feels good. admit it.and regardless of whether you have children or not, support comprehensive sex education that doesn't shame our teenagers. nothing positive comes from shaming teens for their sexual desires, behaviors, other than positive std and pregnancy tests.every single day, we are all given the opportunity to disrupt patterns of inequality. i think we can all agree that it's worth the trouble to do so.thank you. <title = "A better way to talk about love">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'compassion', 'depression', 'empathy', 'happiness', 'humanity', 'love', 'mental health', 'personality', 'relationships', 'trust', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer">
ok, so today i want to talk about how we talk about love. and specifically, i want to talk about what's wrong with how we talk about love.most of us will probably fall in love a few times over the course of our lives, and in the english language, this metaphor, falling, is really the main way that we talk about that experience. i don't know about you, but when i conceptualize this metaphor, what i picture is straight out of a cartoon — like there's a man, he's walking down the sidewalk, without realizing it, he crosses over an open manhole, and he just plummets into the sewer below. and i picture it this way because falling is not jumping. falling is accidental, it's uncontrollable. it's something that happens to us without our consent. and this — this is the main way we talk about starting a new relationship.i am a writer and i'm also an english teacher, which means i think about words for a living. you could say that i get paid to argue that the language we use matters, and i would like to argue that many of the metaphors we use to talk about love — maybe even most of them — are a problem.so, in love, we fall. we're struck. we are crushed. we swoon. we burn with passion. love makes us crazy, and it makes us sick. our hearts ache, and then they break. so our metaphors equate the experience of loving someone to extreme violence or illness. they do. and they position us as the victims of unforeseen and totally unavoidable circumstances. my favorite one of these is "smitten," which is the past participle of the word "smite." and if you look this word up in the dictionary — you will see that it can be defined as both "grievous affliction," and, "to be very much in love." i tend to associate the word "smite" with a very particular context, which is the old testament. in the book of exodus alone, there are 16 references to smiting, which is the word that the bible uses for the vengeance of an angry god. here we are using the same word to talk about love that we use to explain a plague of locusts. right?so, how did this happen? how have we come to associate love with great pain and suffering? and why do we talk about this ostensibly good experience as if we are victims? these are difficult questions, but i have some theories. and to think this through, i want to focus on one metaphor in particular, which is the idea of love as madness.when i first started researching romantic love, i found these madness metaphors everywhere. the history of western culture is full of language that equates love to mental illness. these are just a few examples. william shakespeare: "love is merely a madness," from "as you like it." friedrich nietzsche: "there is always some madness in love." "got me looking, got me looking so crazy in love — " from the great philosopher, beyoncé knowles. i fell in love for the first time when i was 20, and it was a pretty turbulent relationship right from the start. and it was long distance for the first couple of years, so for me that meant very high highs and very low lows. i can remember one moment in particular. i was sitting on a bed in a hostel in south america, and i was watching the person i love walk out the door. and it was late, it was nearly midnight, we'd gotten into an argument over dinner, and when we got back to our room, he threw his things in the bag and stormed out. while i can no longer remember what that argument was about, i very clearly remember how i felt watching him leave.i was 22, it was my first time in the developing world, and i was totally alone. i had another week until my flight home, and i knew the name of the town that i was in, and the name of the city that i needed to get to to fly out, but i had no idea how to get around. i had no guidebook and very little money, and i spoke no spanish.someone more adventurous than me might have seen this as a moment of opportunity, but i just froze. i just sat there. and then i burst into tears. but despite my panic, some small voice in my head thought, "wow. that was dramatic. i must really be doing this love thing right." because some part of me wanted to feel miserable in love. and it sounds so strange to me now, but at 22, i longed to have dramatic experiences, and in that moment, i was irrational and furious and devastated, and weirdly enough, i thought that this somehow legitimized the feelings i had for the guy who had just left me.i think on some level i wanted to feel a little bit crazy, because i thought that that was how loved worked. this really should not be surprising, considering that according to wikipedia, there are eight films, 14 songs, two albums and one novel with the title "crazy love."about half an hour later, he came back to our room. we made up. we spent another mostly happy week traveling together. and then, when i got home, i thought, "that was so terrible and so great. this must be a real romance." i expected my first love to feel like madness, and of course, it met that expectation very well. but loving someone like that — as if my entire well-being depended on him loving me back — was not very good for me or for him.but i suspect this experience of love is not that unusual. most of us do feel a bit mad in the early stages of romantic love. in fact, there is research to confirm that this is somewhat normal, because, neurochemically speaking, romantic love and mental illness are not that easily distinguished. this is true.this study from 1999 used blood tests to confirm that the serotonin levels of the newly in love very closely resembled the serotonin levels of people who had been diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder. yes, and low levels of serotonin are also associated with seasonal affective disorder and depression. so there is some evidence that love is associated with changes to our moods and our behaviors. and there are other studies to confirm that most relationships begin this way.researchers believe that the low levels of serotonin is correlated with obsessive thinking about the object of love, which is like this feeling that someone has set up camp in your brain. and most of us feel this way when we first fall in love. but the good news is, it doesn't always last that long — usually from a few months to a couple of years.when i got back from my trip to south america, i spent a lot of time alone in my room, checking my email, desperate to hear from the guy i loved. i decided that if my friends could not understand my grievous affliction, then i did not need their friendship. so i stopped hanging out with most of them. and it was probably the most unhappy year of my life. but i think i felt like it was my job to be miserable, because if i could be miserable, then i would prove how much i loved him. and if i could prove it, then we would have to end up together eventually.this is the real madness, because there is no cosmic rule that says that great suffering equals great reward, but we talk about love as if this is true.our experiences of love are both biological and cultural. our biology tells us that love is good by activating these reward circuits in our brain, and it tells us that love is painful when, after a fight or a breakup, that neurochemical reward is withdrawn. and in fact — and maybe you've heard this — neurochemically speaking, going through a breakup is a lot like going through cocaine withdrawal, which i find reassuring. and then our culture uses language to shape and reinforce these ideas about love. in this case, we're talking about metaphors about pain and addiction and madness. it's kind of an interesting feedback loop. love is powerful and at times painful, and we express this in our words and stories, but then our words and stories prime us to expect love to be powerful and painful.what's interesting to me is that all of this happens in a culture that values lifelong monogamy. it seems like we want it both ways: we want love to feel like madness, and we want it to last an entire lifetime. that sounds terrible. to reconcile this, we need to either change our culture or change our expectations. so, imagine if we were all less passive in love. if we were more assertive, more open-minded, more generous and instead of falling in love, we stepped into love. i know that this is asking a lot, but i'm not actually the first person to suggest this. in their book, "metaphors we live by," linguists mark johnson and george lakoff suggest a really interesting solution to this dilemma, which is to change our metaphors. they argue that metaphors really do shape the way we experience the world, and that they can even act as a guide for future actions, like self-fulfilling prophecies.johnson and lakoff suggest a new metaphor for love: love as a collaborative work of art. i really like this way of thinking about love. linguists talk about metaphors as having entailments, which is essentially a way of considering all the implications of, or ideas contained within, a given metaphor. and johnson and lakoff talk about everything that collaborating on a work of art entails: effort, compromise, patience, shared goals. these ideas align nicely with our cultural investment in long-term romantic commitment, but they also work well for other kinds of relationships — short-term, casual, polyamorous, non-monogamous, asexual — because this metaphor brings much more complex ideas to the experience of loving someone.so if love is a collaborative work of art, then love is an aesthetic experience. love is unpredictable, love is creative, love requires communication and discipline, it is frustrating and emotionally demanding. and love involves both joy and pain. ultimately, each experience of love is different.when i was younger, it never occurred to me that i was allowed to demand more from love, that i didn't have to just accept whatever love offered. when 14-year-old juliet first meets — or, when 14-year-old juliet cannot be with romeo, whom she has met four days ago, she does not feel disappointed or angsty. where is she? she wants to die. right? and just as a refresher, at this point in the play, act three of five, romeo is not dead. he's alive, he's healthy, he's just been banished from the city. i understand that 16th-century verona is unlike contemporary north america, and yet when i first read this play, also at age 14, juliet's suffering made sense to me.reframing love as something i get to create with someone i admire, rather than something that just happens to me without my control or consent, is empowering. it's still hard. love still feels totally maddening and crushing some days, and when i feel really frustrated, i have to remind myself: my job in this relationship is to talk to my partner about what i want to make together. this isn't easy, either. but it's just so much better than the alternative, which is that thing that feels like madness.this version of love is not about winning or losing someone's affection. instead, it requires that you trust your partner and talk about things when trusting feels difficult, which sounds so simple, but is actually a kind of revolutionary, radical act. this is because you get to stop thinking about yourself and what you're gaining or losing in your relationship, and you get to start thinking about what you have to offer. this version of love allows us to say things like, "hey, we're not very good collaborators. maybe this isn't for us." or, "that relationship was shorter than i had planned, but it was still kind of beautiful."the beautiful thing about the collaborative work of art is that it will not paint or draw or sculpt itself. this version of love allows us to decide what it looks like.thank you. <title = "The next step in nanotechnology">
<tags = "['chemistry', 'computers', 'design', 'engineering', 'future', 'innovation', 'materials', 'nature', 'potential', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Materials scientist">
let's imagine a sculptor building a statue, just chipping away with his chisel. michelangelo had this elegant way of describing it when he said, "every block of stone has a statue inside of it, and it's the task of the sculptor to discover it." but what if he worked in the opposite direction? not from a solid block of stone, but from a pile of dust, somehow gluing millions of these particles together to form a statue.i know that's an absurd notion. it's probably impossible. the only way you get a statue from a pile of dust is if the statue built itself — if somehow we could compel millions of these particles to come together to form the statue.now, as odd as that sounds, that is almost exactly the problem i work on in my lab. i don't build with stone, i build with nanomaterials. they're these just impossibly small, fascinating little objects. they're so small that if this controller was a nanoparticle, a human hair would be the size of this entire room. and they're at the heart of a field we call nanotechnology, which i'm sure we've all heard about, and we've all heard how it is going to change everything.when i was a graduate student, it was one of the most exciting times to be working in nanotechnology. there were scientific breakthroughs happening all the time. the conferences were buzzing, there was tons of money pouring in from funding agencies. and the reason is when objects get really small, they're governed by a different set of physics that govern ordinary objects, like the ones we interact with. we call this physics quantum mechanics. and what it tells you is that you can precisely tune their behavior just by making seemingly small changes to them, like adding or removing a handful of atoms, or twisting the material. it's like this ultimate toolkit. you really felt empowered; you felt like you could make anything.and we were doing it — and by we i mean my whole generation of graduate students. we were trying to make blazing fast computers using nanomaterials. we were constructing quantum dots that could one day go in your body and find and fight disease. there were even groups trying to make an elevator to space using carbon nanotubes. you can look that up, that's true. anyways, we thought it was going to affect all parts of science and technology, from computing to medicine. and i have to admit, i drank all of the kool-aid. i mean, every last drop.but that was 15 years ago, and — fantastic science was done, really important work. we've learned a lot. we were never able to translate that science into new technologies — into technologies that could actually impact people. and the reason is, these nanomaterials — they're like a double-edged sword. the same thing that makes them so interesting — their small size — also makes them impossible to work with. it's literally like trying to build a statue out of a pile of dust. and we just don't have the tools that are small enough to work with them. but even if we did, it wouldn't really matter, because we couldn't one by one place millions of particles together to build a technology. so because of that, all of the promise and all of the excitement has remained just that: promise and excitement. we don't have any disease-fighting nanobots, there's no elevators to space, and the thing that i'm most interested in, no new types of computing.now that last one, that's a really important one. we just have come to expect the pace of computing advancements to go on indefinitely. we've built entire economies on this idea. and this pace exists because of our ability to pack more and more devices onto a computer chip. and as those devices get smaller, they get faster, they consume less power and they get cheaper. and it's this convergence that gives us this incredible pace.as an example: if i took the room-sized computer that sent three men to the moon and back and somehow compressed it — compressed the world's greatest computer of its day, so it was the same size as your smartphone — your actual smartphone, that thing you spent 300 bucks on and just toss out every two years, would blow this thing away. you would not be impressed. it couldn't do anything that your smartphone does. it would be slow, you couldn't put any of your stuff on it, you could possibly get through the first two minutes of a "walking dead" episode if you're lucky — the point is the progress — it's not gradual. the progress is relentless. it's exponential. it compounds on itself year after year, to the point where if you compare a technology from one generation to the next, they're almost unrecognizable. and we owe it to ourselves to keep this progress going. we want to say the same thing 10, 20, 30 years from now: look what we've done over the last 30 years. yet we know this progress may not last forever. in fact, the party's kind of winding down. it's like "last call for alcohol," right? if you look under the covers, by many metrics like speed and performance, the progress has already slowed to a halt. so if we want to keep this party going, we have to do what we've always been able to do, and that is to innovate.so our group's role and our group's mission is to innovate by employing carbon nanotubes, because we think that they can provide a path to continue this pace. they are just like they sound. they're tiny, hollow tubes of carbon atoms, and their nanoscale size, that small size, gives rise to these just outstanding electronic properties. and the science tells us if we could employ them in computing, we could see up to a ten times improvement in performance. it's like skipping through several technology generations in just one step.so there we have it. we have this really important problem and we have what is basically the ideal solution. the science is screaming at us, "this is what you should be doing to solve your problem." so, all right, let's get started, let's do this. but you just run right back into that double-edged sword. this "ideal solution" contains a material that's impossible to work with. i'd have to arrange billions of them just to make one single computer chip. it's that same conundrum, it's like this undying problem.at this point, we said, "let's just stop. let's not go down that same road. let's just figure out what's missing. what are we not dealing with? what are we not doing that needs to be done?" it's like in "the godfather," right? when fredo betrays his brother michael, we all know what needs to be done. fredo's got to go. but michael — he puts it off. fine, i get it. their mother's still alive, it would make her upset. we just said, "what's the fredo in our problem?" what are we not dealing with? what are we not doing, but needs to be done to make this a success?" and the answer is that the statue has to build itself. we have to find a way, somehow, to compel, to convince billions of these particles to assemble themselves into the technology. we can't do it for them. they have to do it for themselves. and it's the hard way, and this is not trivial, but in this case, it's the only way.now, as it turns out, this is not that alien of a problem. we just don't build anything this way. people don't build anything this way. but if you look around — and there's examples everywhere — mother nature builds everything this way. everything is built from the bottom up. you can go to the beach, you'll find these simple organisms that use proteins — basically molecules — to template what is essentially sand, just plucking it from the sea and building these extraordinary architectures with extreme diversity. and nature's not crude like us, just hacking away. she's elegant and smart, building with what's available, molecule by molecule, making structures with a complexity and a diversity that we can't even approach. and she's already at the nano. she's been there for hundreds of millions of years. we're the ones that are late to the party.so we decided that we're going to use the same tool that nature uses, and that's chemistry. chemistry is the missing tool. and chemistry works in this case because these nanoscale objects are about the same size as molecules, so we can use them to steer these objects around, much like a tool. that's exactly what we've done in our lab. we've developed chemistry that goes into the pile of dust, into the pile of nanoparticles, and pulls out exactly the ones we need. then we can use chemistry to arrange literally billions of these particles into the pattern we need to build circuits. and because we can do that, we can build circuits that are many times faster than what anyone's been able to make using nanomaterials before. chemistry's the missing tool, and every day our tool gets sharper and gets more precise. and eventually — and we hope this is within a handful of years — we can deliver on one of those original promises.now, computing is just one example. it's the one that i'm interested in, that my group is really invested in, but there are others in renewable energy, in medicine, in structural materials, where the science is going to tell you to move towards the nano. that's where the biggest benefit is. but if we're going to do that, the scientists of today and tomorrow are going to need new tools — tools just like the ones i described. and they will need chemistry. that's the point. the beauty of science is that once you develop these new tools, they're out there. they're out there forever, and anyone anywhere can pick them up and use them, and help to deliver on the promise of nanotechnology.thank you so much for your time. i appreciate it. <title = "Meet the inventor of the electronic spreadsheet">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'code', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'data', 'design', 'discovery', 'history', 'innovation', 'invention', 'math', 'potential', 'product design', 'productivity', 'technology', 'visualizations', 'work']">
<occupation = "Software pioneer">
how many of you have used an electronic spreadsheet, like microsoft excel? very good. now, how many of you have run a business with a spreadsheet by hand, like my dad did for his small printing business in philadelphia? a lot less.well, that's the way it was done for hundreds of years. in early 1978, i started working on an idea that eventually became visicalc. and the next year it shipped running on something new called an apple ii personal computer. you could tell that things had really changed when, six years later, the wall street journal ran an editorial that assumed you knew what visicalc was and maybe even were using it.steve jobs back in 1990 said that "spreadsheets propelled the industry forward." "visicalc propelled the success of apple more than any other single event." on a more personal note, steve said, "if visicalc had been written for some other computer, you'd be interviewing somebody else right now."so, visicalc was instrumental in getting personal computers on business desks. how did it come about? what was it? what did i go through to make it be what it was? well, i first learned to program back in 1966, when i was 15 — just a couple months after this photo was taken. few high schoolers had access to computers in those days. but through luck and an awful lot of perseverance, i was able to get computer time around the city.after sleeping in the mud at woodstock, i went off to mit to go to college, where to make money, i worked on the multics project. multics was a trailblazing interactive time-sharing system. have you heard of the linux and unix operating systems? they came from multics. i worked on the multics versions of what are known as interpreted computer languages, that are used by people in noncomputer fields to do their calculations while seated at a computer terminal.after i graduated from mit, i went to work for digital equipment corporation. at dec, i worked on software for the new area of computerized typesetting. i helped newspapers replace their reporters' typewriters with computer terminals. i'd write software and then i'd go out in the field to places like the kansas city star, where i would train users and get feedback. this was real-world experience that is quite different than what i saw in the lab at mit.after that, i was project leader of the software for dec's first word processor, again a new field. like with typesetting, the important thing was crafting a user interface that was both natural and efficient for noncomputer people to use. after i was at dec, i went to work for a small company that made microprocessor-based electronic cash registers for the fast-food industry. but i had always wanted to start a company with my friend bob frankston that i met on the multics project at mit.so i decided to go back to school to learn as much as i could about business. and in the fall of 1977, i entered the mba program at harvard business school. i was one of the few percentage of students who had a background in computer programming. there's a picture of me from the yearbook sitting in the front row. now, at harvard, we learned by the case method. we'd do about three cases a day. cases consist of up to a few dozen pages describing particular business situations. they often have exhibits, and exhibits often have words and numbers laid out in ways that make sense for the particular situation. they're usually all somewhat different. here's my homework. again, numbers, words, laid out in ways that made sense. lots of calculations — we got really close to our calculators. in fact, here's my calculator. for halloween, i went dressed up as a calculator. at the beginning of each class, the professor would call on somebody to present the case. what they would do is they would explain what was going on and then dictate information that the professor would transcribe onto the many motorized blackboards in the front of the class, and then we'd have a discussion. one of the really frustrating things is when you've done all your homework, you come in the next day only to find out that you made an error and all of the other numbers you did were wrong. and you couldn't participate as well. and we were marked by class participation.so, sitting there with 87 other people in the class, i got to daydream a lot. most programmers in those days worked on mainframes, building things like inventory systems, payroll systems and bill-paying systems. but i had worked on interactive word processing and on-demand personal computation. instead of thinking about paper printouts and punch cards, i imagined a magic blackboard that if you erased one number and wrote a new thing in, all of the other numbers would automatically change, like word processing with numbers. i imagined that my calculator had mouse hardware on the bottom of it and a head-up display, like in a fighter plane. and i could type some numbers in, and circle it, and press the sum button. and right in the middle of a negotiation i'd be able to get the answer. now i just had to take my fantasy and turn it into reality.my father taught me about prototyping. he showed me mock-ups that he'd make to figure out the placement on the page for the things for brochures that he was printing. and he'd use it to get feedback from customers and oks before he sent the job off to the presses. the act of making a simple, working version of what you're trying to build forces you to uncover key problems. and it lets you find solutions to those problems much less expensively.so i decided to build a prototype. i went to a video terminal connected to harvard's time-sharing system and got to work. one of the first problems that i ran into was: how do you represent values in formulas? let me show you what i mean. i thought that you would point somewhere, type in some words, then type in some somewhere else, put in some numbers and some more numbers, point where you want the answer. and then point to the first, press minus, point to the second, and get the result. the problem was: what should i put in the formula? it had to be something the computer knew what to put in. and if you looked at the formula, you needed to know where on the screen it referred to. the first thing i thought was the programmer way of doing it. the first time you pointed to somewhere, the computer would ask you to type in a unique name. it became pretty clear pretty fast that that was going to be too tedious. the computer had to automatically make up the name and put it inside. so i thought, why not make it be the order in which you create them? i tried that. value 1, value 2. pretty quickly i saw that if you had more than a few values you'd never remember on the screen where things were.then i said, why not instead of allowing you to put values anywhere, i'll restrict you to a grid? then when you pointed to a cell, the computer could put the row and column in as a name. and, if i did it like a map and put abc across the top and numbers along the side, if you saw b7 in a formula, you'd know exactly where it was on the screen. and if you had to type the formula in yourself, you'd know what to do. restricting you to a grid helped solve my problem. it also opened up new capabilities, like the ability to have ranges of cells. but it wasn't too restrictive — you could still put any value, any formula, in any cell. and that's the way we do it to this day, almost 40 years later.my friend bob and i decided that we were going to build this product together. i did more work figuring out exactly how the program was supposed to behave. i wrote a reference card to act as documentation. it also helped me ensure that the user interface i was defining could be explained concisely and clearly to regular people. bob worked in the attic of the apartment he rented in arlington, massachusetts. this is the inside of the attic. bob bought time on the mit multics system to write computer code on a terminal like this. and then he would download test versions to a borrowed apple ii over a phone line using an acoustic coupler, and then we would test.for one of these tests i prepared for this case about the pepsi challenge. print wasn't working yet, so i had to copy everything down. save wasn't working, so every time it crashed, i had to type in all of the formulas again, over and over again. the next day in class, i raised my hand; i got called on, and i presented the case. i did five-year projections. i did all sorts of different scenarios. i aced the case. visicalc was already useful.the professor said, "how did you do it?" well, i didn't want to tell him about our secret program. so i said, "i took this and added this and multiplied by this and subtracted that."he said, "well, why didn't you use a ratio?"i said, "hah! a ratio — that wouldn't have been as exact!" what i didn't say was, "divide isn't working yet." eventually, though, we did finish enough of visicalc to be able to show it to the public. my dad printed up a sample reference card that we could use as marketing material.in june of 1979, our publisher announced visicalc to the world, in a small booth at the giant national computer conference in new york city. the new york times had a humorous article about the conference. "the machines perform what seem religious rites ... even as the believers gather, the painters in the coliseum sign room are adding to the pantheon, carefully lettering 'visicalc' in giant black on yellow. all hail visicalc!" (gasp) new york times: "all hail visicalc." that was the last mention of the electronic spreadsheet in the popular business press for about two years. most people didn't get it yet. but some did.in october of 1979, we shipped visicalc. it came in packaging that looked like this. and it looked like this running on the apple ii. and the rest, as they say, is history.now, there's an awful lot more to this story, but that'll have to wait for another day. one thing, though, harvard remembers. here's that classroom. they put up a plaque to commemorate what happened there. but it also serves as a reminder that you, too, should take your unique backgrounds, skills and needs and build prototypes to discover and work out the key problems, and through that, change the world.thank you. <title = "To solve old problems, study new species">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'animals', 'beauty', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'biosphere', 'creativity', 'curiosity', 'discovery', 'education', 'environment', 'exploration', 'illness', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'life', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'oceans', 'physiology', 'science']">
<occupation = "Developmental and regeneration biologist">
for the past few years, i've been spending my summers in the marine biological laboratory in woods hole, massachusetts. and there, what i've been doing is essentially renting a boat. what i would like to do is ask you to come on a boat ride with me tonight.so, we ride off from eel pond into vineyard sound, right off the coast of martha's vineyard, equipped with a drone to identify potential spots from which to peer into the atlantic. earlier, i was going to say into the depths of the atlantic, but we don't have to go too deep to reach the unknown. here, barely two miles away from what is arguably the greatest marine biology lab in the world, we lower a simple plankton net into the water and bring up to the surface things that humanity rarely pays any attention to, and oftentimes has never seen before.here's one of the organisms that we caught in our net. this is a jellyfish. but look closely, and living inside of this animal is another organism that is very likely entirely new to science. a complete new species. or how about this other transparent beauty with a beating heart, asexually growing on top of its head, progeny that will move on to reproduce sexually. let me say that again: this animal is growing asexually on top of its head, progeny that is going to reproduce sexually in the next generation. a weird jellyfish? not quite. this is an ascidian. this is a group of animals that now we know we share extensive genomic ancestry with, and it is perhaps the closest invertebrate species to our own. meet your cousin, thalia democratica. i'm pretty sure you didn't save a spot at your last family reunion for thalia, but let me tell you, these animals are profoundly related to us in ways that we're just beginning to understand. so, next time you hear anybody derisively telling you that this type of research is a simple fishing expedition, i hope that you'll remember the trip that we just took.today, many of the biological sciences only see value in studying deeper what we already know — in mapping already-discovered continents. but some of us are much more interested in the unknown. we want to discover completely new continents, and gaze at magnificent vistas of ignorance. we crave the experience of being completely baffled by something we've never seen before. and yes, i agree there's a lot of little ego satisfaction in being able to say, "hey, i was the first one to discover that." but this is not a self-aggrandizing enterprise, because in this type of discovery research, if you don't feel like a complete idiot most of the time, you're just not sciencing hard enough. so every summer i bring onto the deck of this little boat of ours more and more things that we know very little about. i would like tonight to tell you a story about life that rarely gets told in an environment like this. from the vantage point of our 21st-century biological laboratories, we have begun to illuminate many mysteries of life with knowledge. we sense that after centuries of scientific research, we're beginning to make significant inroads into understanding some of the most fundamental principles of life.our collective optimism is reflected by the growth of biotechnology across the globe, striving to utilize scientific knowledge to cure human diseases. things like cancer, aging, degenerative diseases; these are but some of the undesirables we wish to tame. i often wonder: why is it that we are having so much trouble trying to solve the problem of cancer? is it that we're trying to solve the problem of cancer, and not trying to understand life?life on this planet shares a common origin, and i can summarize 3.5 billion years of the history of life on this planet in a single slide. what you see here are representatives of all known species in our planet. in this immensity of life and biodiversity, we occupy a rather unremarkable position. homo sapiens. the last of our kind. and though i don't really want to disparage at all the accomplishments of our species, as much as we wish it to be so and often pretend that it is, we are not the measure of all things. we are, however, the measurers of many things. we relentlessly quantify, analyze and compare, and some of this is absolutely invaluable and indeed necessary.but this emphasis today on forcing biological research to specialize and to produce practical outcomes is actually restricting our ability to interrogate life to unacceptably narrow confines and unsatisfying depths. we are measuring an astonishingly narrow sliver of life, and hoping that those numbers will save all of our lives. how narrow do you ask? well, let me give you a number. the national oceanic and atmospheric administration recently estimated that about 95 percent of our oceans remain unexplored. now let that sink in for a second. 95 percent of our oceans remain unexplored. i think it's very safe to say that we don't even know how much about life we do not know.so, it's not surprising that every week in my field we begin to see the addition of more and more new species to this amazing tree of life. this one for example — discovered earlier this summer, new to science, and now occupying its lonely branch in our family tree. what is even more tragic is that we know about a bunch of other species of animals out there, but their biology remains sorely under-studied.i'm sure some of you have heard about the fact that a starfish can actually regenerate its arm after it's lost. but some of you might not know that the arm itself can actually regenerate a complete starfish. and there are animals out there that do truly astounding things. i'm almost willing to bet that many of you have never heard of the flatworm, schmidtea mediterranea. this little guy right here does things that essentially just blow my mind. you can grab one of these animals and cut it into 18 different fragments, and each and every one of those fragments will go on to regenerate a complete animal in under two weeks. 18 heads, 18 bodies, 18 mysteries. for the past decade and a half or so, i've been trying to figure out how these little dudes do what they do, and how they pull this magic trick off. but like all good magicians, they're not really releasing their secrets readily to me. so here we are, after 20 years of essentially studying these animals, genome mapping, chin scratching, and thousands of amputations and thousands of regenerations, we still don't fully understand how these animals do what they do. each planarian an ocean unto itself, full of unknowns.one of the common characteristics of all of these animals i've been talking to you about is that they did not appear to have received the memo that they need to behave according to the rules that we have derived from a handful of randomly selected animals that currently populate the vast majority of biomedical laboratories across the world. meet our nobel prize winners. seven species, essentially, that have produced for us the brunt of our understanding of biological behavior today. this little guy right here — three nobel prizes in 12 years. and yet, after all the attention they have garnered, and all the knowledge they have generated, as well as the lion's share of the funding, here we are standing [before] the same litany of intractable problems and many new challenges. and that's because, unfortunately, these seven animals essentially correspond to 0.0009 percent of all of the species that inhabit the planet.so i'm beginning to suspect that our specialization is beginning to impede our progress at best, and at worst, is leading us astray. that's because life on this planet and its history is the history of rule breakers. life started on the face of this planet as single-cell organisms, swimming for millions of years in the ocean, until one of those creatures decided, "i'm going to do things differently today; today i would like to invent something called multicellularity, and i'm going to do this." and i'm sure it wasn't a popular decision at the time — but somehow, it managed to do it. and then, multicellular organisms began to populate all these ancestral oceans, and they thrived. and we have them here today. land masses began to emerge from the surface of the oceans, and another creature thought, "hey, that looks like a really nice piece of real estate. i'd like to move there." "are you crazy? you're going to desiccate out there. nothing can live out of water." but life found a way, and there are organisms now that live on land. once on land, they may have looked up into the sky and said, "it would be nice to go to the clouds, i'm going to fly." "you can't break the law of gravity, there's no way you can fly." and yet, nature has invented — multiple and independent times — ways to fly.i love to study these animals that break the rules, because every time they break a rule, they invent something new that made it possible for us to be able to be here today. these animals did not get the memo. they break the rules. so if we're going to study animals that break the rules, shouldn't how we study them also break the rules?i think we need to renew our spirit of exploration. rather than bring nature into our laboratories and interrogate it there, we need to bring our science into the majestic laboratory that is nature, and there, with our modern technological armamentarium, interrogate every new form of life we find, and any new biological attribute that we may find. we actually need to bring all of our intelligence to becoming stupid again — clueless [before] the immensity of the unknown. because after all, science is not really about knowledge. science is about ignorance. that's what we do.once, antoine de saint-exupéry wrote, "if you want to build a ship, don't drum up people to collect wood and don't assign them tasks and work, but rather teach them to long for the endless immensity of the sea ..." as a scientist and a teacher, i like to paraphrase this to read that we scientists need to teach our students to long for the endless immensity of the sea that is our ignorance. we homo sapiens are the only species we know of that is driven to scientific inquiry. we, like all other species on this planet, are inextricably woven into the history of life on this planet. and i think i'm a little wrong when i say that life is a mystery, because i think that life is actually an open secret that has been beckoning our species for millennia to understand it.so i ask you: aren't we the best chance that life has to know itself? and if so, what the heck are we waiting for?thank you. <title = "If a story moves you, act on it">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Internet', 'activism', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'empathy', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'journalism', 'motivation', 'news', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'storytelling', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist">
so earlier this year, i was informed that i would be doing a ted talk. so i was excited, then i panicked, then i was excited, then i panicked, and in between the excitement and the panicking, i started to do my research, and my research primarily consisted of googling how to give a great ted talk. and interspersed with that, i was googling chimamanda ngozi adichie. how many of you know who that is?(cheers)so i was googling her because i always google her because i'm just a fan, but also because she always has important and interesting things to say. and the combination of those searches kept leading me to her talk on the dangers of a single story, on what happens when we have a solitary lens through which to understand certain groups of people, and it is the perfect talk. it's the talk that i would have given if i had been famous first. you know, and you know, like, she's african and i'm african, and she's a feminist and i'm a feminist, and she's a storyteller and i'm a storyteller, so i really felt like it's my talk. so i decided that i was going to learn how to code, and then i was going to hack the internet and i would take down all the copies of that talk that existed, and then i would memorize it, and then i would come here and deliver it as if it was my own speech. so that plan was going really well, except the coding part, and then one morning a few months ago, i woke up to the news that the wife of a certain presidential candidate had given a speech that — that sounded eerily like a speech given by one of my other faves, michelle obama.(cheers)and so i decided that i should probably write my own ted talk, and so that is what i am here to do. i'm here to talk about my own observations about storytelling. i want to talk to you about the power of stories, of course, but i also want to talk about their limitations, particularly for those of us who are interested in social justice.so since adichie gave that talk seven years ago, there has been a boom in storytelling. stories are everywhere, and if there was a danger in the telling of one tired old tale, then i think there has got to be lots to celebrate about the flourishing of so many stories and so many voices. stories are the antidote to bias. in fact, today, if you are middle class and connected via the internet, you can download stories at the touch of a button or the swipe of a screen. you can listen to a podcast about what it's like to grow up dalit in kolkata. you can hear an indigenous man in australia talk about the trials and triumphs of raising his children in dignity and in pride. stories make us fall in love. they heal rifts and they bridge divides. stories can even make it easier for us to talk about the deaths of people in our societies who don't matter, because they make us care. right?i'm not so sure, and i actually work for a place called the centre for stories. and my job is to help to tell stories that challenge mainstream narratives about what it means to be black or a muslim or a refugee or any of those other categories that we talk about all the time. but i come to this work after a long history as a social justice activist, and so i'm really interested in the ways that people talk about nonfiction storytelling as though it's about more than entertainment, as though it's about being a catalyst for social action. it's not uncommon to hear people say that stories make the world a better place. increasingly, though, i worry that even the most poignant stories, particularly the stories about people who no one seems to care about, can often get in the way of action towards social justice. now, this is not because storytellers mean any harm. quite the contrary. storytellers are often do-gooders like me and, i suspect, yourselves. and the audiences of storytellers are often deeply compassionate and empathetic people. still, good intentions can have unintended consequences, and so i want to propose that stories are not as magical as they seem. so three — because it's always got to be three — three reasons why i think that stories don't necessarily make the world a better place.firstly, stories can create an illusion of solidarity. there is nothing like that feel-good factor you get from listening to a fantastic story where you feel like you climbed that mountain, right, or that you befriended that death row inmate. but you didn't. you haven't done anything. listening is an important but insufficient step towards social action.secondly, i think often we are drawn towards characters and protagonists who are likable and human. and this makes sense, of course, right? because if you like someone, then you care about them. but the inverse is also true. if you don't like someone, then you don't care about them. and if you don't care about them, you don't have to see yourself as having a moral obligation to think about the circumstances that shaped their lives.i learned this lesson when i was 14 years old. i learned that actually, you don't have to like someone to recognize their wisdom, and you certainly don't have to like someone to take a stand by their side. so my bike was stolen while i was riding it — which is possible if you're riding slowly enough, which i was. so one minute i'm cutting across this field in the nairobi neighborhood where i grew up, and it's like a very bumpy path, and so when you're riding a bike, you don't want to be like, you know — and so i'm going like this, slowly pedaling, and all of a sudden, i'm on the floor. i'm on the ground, and i look up, and there's this kid peddling away in the getaway vehicle, which is my bike, and he's about 11 or 12 years old, and i'm on the floor, and i'm crying because i saved a lot of money for that bike, and i'm crying and i stand up and i start screaming. instinct steps in, and i start screaming, "mwizi, mwizi!" which means "thief" in swahili. and out of the woodworks, all of these people come out and they start to give chase. this is africa, so mob justice in action. right? and i round the corner, and they've captured him, they've caught him. the suspect has been apprehended, and they make him give me my bike back, and they also make him apologize. again, you know, typical african justice, right? and so they make him say sorry. and so we stand there facing each other, and he looks at me, and he says sorry, but he looks at me with this unbridled fury. he is very, very angry. and it is the first time that i have been confronted with someone who doesn't like me simply because of what i represent. he looks at me with this look as if to say, "you, with your shiny skin and your bike, you're angry at me?"so it was a hard lesson that he didn't like me, but you know what, he was right. i was a middle-class kid living in a poor country. i had a bike, and he barely had food. sometimes, it's the messages that we don't want to hear, the ones that make us want to crawl out of ourselves, that we need to hear the most. for every lovable storyteller who steals your heart, there are hundreds more whose voices are slurred and ragged, who don't get to stand up on a stage dressed in fine clothes like this. there are a million angry-boy-on-a-bike stories and we can't afford to ignore them simply because we don't like their protagonists or because that's not the kid that we would bring home with us from the orphanage.the third reason that i think that stories don't necessarily make the world a better place is that too often we are so invested in the personal narrative that we forget to look at the bigger picture. and so we applaud someone when they tell us about their feelings of shame, but we don't necessarily link that to oppression. we nod understandingly when someone says they felt small, but we don't link that to discrimination. the most important stories, especially for social justice, are those that do both, that are both personal and allow us to explore and understand the political.but it's not just about the stories we like versus the stories we choose to ignore. increasingly, we are living in a society where there are larger forces at play, where stories are actually for many people beginning to replace the news. yeah? we live in a time where we are witnessing the decline of facts, when emotions rule and analysis, it's kind of boring, right? where we value what we feel more than what we actually know. a recent report by the pew center on trends in america indicates that only 10 percent of young adults under the age of 30 "place a lot of trust in the media." now, this is significant. it means that storytellers are gaining trust at precisely the same moment that many in the media are losing the confidence in the public. this is not a good thing, because while stories are important and they help us to have insights in many ways, we need the media. from my years as a social justice activist, i know very well that we need credible facts from media institutions combined with the powerful voices of storytellers. that's what pushes the needle forward in terms of social justice.in the final analysis, of course, it is justice that makes the world a better place, not stories. right? and so if it is justice that we are after, then i think we mustn't focus on the media or on storytellers. we must focus on audiences, on anyone who has ever turned on a radio or listened to a podcast, and that means all of us.so a few concluding thoughts on what audiences can do to make the world a better place. so firstly, the world would be a better place, i think, if audiences were more curious and more skeptical and asked more questions about the social context that created those stories that they love so much. secondly, the world would be a better place if audiences recognized that storytelling is intellectual work. and i think it would be important for audiences to demand more buttons on their favorite websites, buttons for example that say, "if you liked this story, click here to support a cause your storyteller believes in." or "click here to contribute to your storyteller's next big idea." often, we are committed to the platforms, but not necessarily to the storytellers themselves. and then lastly, i think that audiences can make the world a better place by switching off their phones, by stepping away from their screens and stepping out into the real world beyond what feels safe.alice walker has said, "look closely at the present you are constructing. it should look like the future you are dreaming." storytellers can help us to dream, but it's up to all of us to have a plan for justice.thank you. <title = "What happens when you have a disease doctors can't diagnose">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'TED Fellows', 'activism', 'film', 'gender', 'health', 'health care', 'history', 'illness', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'pain', 'personal growth', 'science', 'women']">
<occupation = "Filmmaker">
hi.thank you.[jennifer brea is sound-sensitive. the live audience was asked to applaud asl-style, in silence.]so, five years ago, this was me. i was a phd student at harvard, and i loved to travel. i had just gotten engaged to marry the love of my life. i was 28, and like so many of us when we are in good health, i felt like i was invincible.then one day i had a fever of 104.7 degrees. i probably should have gone to the doctor, but i'd never really been sick in my life, and i knew that usually, if you have a virus, you stay home and you make some chicken soup, and in a few days, everything will be fine. but this time it wasn't fine. after the fever broke, for three weeks i was so dizzy, i couldn't leave my house. i would walk straight into door frames. i had to hug the walls just to make it to the bathroom. that spring i got infection after infection, and every time i went to the doctor, he said there was absolutely nothing wrong. he had his laboratory tests, which always came back normal. all i had were my symptoms, which i could describe, but no one else can see. i know it sounds silly, but you have to find a way to explain things like this to yourself, and so i thought maybe i was just aging. maybe this is what it's like to be on the other side of 25. then the neurological symptoms started. sometimes i would find that i couldn't draw the right side of a circle. other times i wouldn't be able to speak or move at all. i saw every kind of specialist: infectious disease doctors, dermatologists, endocrinologists, cardiologists. i even saw a psychiatrist. my psychiatrist said, "it's clear you're really sick, but not with anything psychiatric. i hope they can find out what's wrong with you."the next day, my neurologist diagnosed me with conversion disorder. he told me that everything — the fevers, the sore throats, the sinus infection, all of the gastrointestinal, neurological and cardiac symptoms — were being caused by some distant emotional trauma that i could not remember. the symptoms were real, he said, but they had no biological cause.i was training to be a social scientist. i had studied statistics, probability theory, mathematical modeling, experimental design. i felt like i couldn't just reject my neurologist's diagnosis. it didn't feel true, but i knew from my training that the truth is often counterintuitive, so easily obscured by what we want to believe. so i had to consider the possibility that he was right.that day, i ran a small experiment. i walked back the two miles from my neurologist's office to my house, my legs wrapped in this strange, almost electric kind of pain. i meditated on that pain, contemplating how my mind could have possibly generated all this. as soon as i walked through the door, i collapsed. my brain and my spinal cord were burning. my neck was so stiff i couldn't touch my chin to my chest, and the slightest sound — the rustling of the sheets, my husband walking barefoot in the next room — could cause excruciating pain. i would spend most of the next two years in bed.how could my doctor have gotten it so wrong? i thought i had a rare disease, something doctors had never seen. and then i went online and found thousands of people all over the world living with the same symptoms, similarly isolated, similarly disbelieved. some could still work, but had to spend their evenings and weekends in bed, just so they could show up the next monday. on the other end of the spectrum, some were so sick they had to live in complete darkness, unable to tolerate the sound of a human voice or the touch of a loved one.i was diagnosed with myalgic encephalomyelitis. you've probably heard it called "chronic fatigue syndrome." for decades, that's a name that's meant that this has been the dominant image of a disease that can be as serious as this. the key symptom we all share is that whenever we exert ourselves — physically, mentally — we pay and we pay hard. if my husband goes for a run, he might be sore for a couple of days. if i try to walk half a block, i might be bedridden for a week. it is a perfect custom prison. i know ballet dancers who can't dance, accountants who can't add, medical students who never became doctors. it doesn't matter what you once were; you can't do it anymore. it's been four years, and i've still never been as well as i was the minute before i walked home from my neurologist's office.it's estimated that about 15 to 30 million people around the world have this disease. in the us, where i'm from, it's about one million people. that makes it roughly twice as common as multiple sclerosis. patients can live for decades with the physical function of someone with congestive heart failure. twenty-five percent of us are homebound or bedridden, and 75 to 85 percent of us can't even work part-time. yet doctors do not treat us and science does not study us. how could a disease this common and this devastating have been forgotten by medicine?when my doctor diagnosed me with conversion disorder, he was invoking a lineage of ideas about women's bodies that are over 2,500 years old. the roman physician galen thought that hysteria was caused by sexual deprivation in particularly passionate women. the greeks thought the uterus would literally dry up and wander around the body in search of moisture, pressing on internal organs — yes — causing symptoms from extreme emotions to dizziness and paralysis. the cure was marriage and motherhood.these ideas went largely unchanged for several millennia until the 1880s, when neurologists tried to modernize the theory of hysteria. sigmund freud developed a theory that the unconscious mind could produce physical symptoms when dealing with memories or emotions too painful for the conscious mind to handle. it converted these emotions into physical symptoms. this meant that men could now get hysteria, but of course women were still the most susceptible.when i began investigating the history of my own disease, i was amazed to find how deep these ideas still run. in 1934, 198 doctors, nurses and staff at the los angeles county general hospital became seriously ill. they had muscle weakness, stiffness in the neck and back, fevers — all of the same symptoms i had when i first got diagnosed. doctors thought it was a new form of polio. since then, there have been more than 70 outbreaks documented around the world, of a strikingly similar post-infectious disease. all of these outbreaks have tended to disproportionately affect women, and in time, when doctors failed to find the one cause of the disease, they thought that these outbreaks were mass hysteria.why has this idea had such staying power? i do think it has to do with sexism, but i also think that fundamentally, doctors want to help. they want to know the answer, and this category allows doctors to treat what would otherwise be untreatable, to explain illnesses that have no explanation. the problem is that this can cause real harm. in the 1950s, a psychiatrist named eliot slater studied a cohort of 85 patients who had been diagnosed with hysteria. nine years later, 12 of them were dead and 30 had become disabled. many had undiagnosed conditions like multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, brain tumors. in 1980, hysteria was officially renamed "conversion disorder." when my neurologist gave me that diagnosis in 2012, he was echoing freud's words verbatim, and even today, women are 2 to 10 times more likely to receive that diagnosis.the problem with the theory of hysteria or psychogenic illness is that it can never be proven. it is by definition the absence of evidence, and in the case of me, psychological explanations have held back biological research. all around the world, me is one of the least funded diseases. in the us, we spend each year roughly 2,500 dollars per aids patient, 250 dollars per ms patient and just 5 dollars per year per me patient. this was not just lightning. i was not just unlucky. the ignorance surrounding my disease has been a choice, a choice made by the institutions that were supposed to protect us.we don't know why me sometimes runs in families, why you can get it after almost any infection, from enteroviruses to epstein-barr virus to q fever, or why it affects women at two to three times the rate of men. this issue is much bigger than just my disease. when i first got sick, old friends were reaching out to me. i soon found myself a part of a cohort of women in their late 20s whose bodies were falling apart. what was striking was just how much trouble we were having being taken seriously.i learned of one woman with scleroderma, an autoimmune connective tissue disease, who was told for years that it was all in her head. between the time of onset and diagnosis, her esophagus was so thoroughly damaged, she will never be able to eat again. another woman with ovarian cancer, who for years was told that it was just early menopause. a friend from college, whose brain tumor was misdiagnosed for years as anxiety.here's why this worries me: since the 1950s, rates of many autoimmune diseases have doubled to tripled. forty-five percent of patients who are eventually diagnosed with a recognized autoimmune disease are initially told they're hypochondriacs. like the hysteria of old, this has everything to do with gender and with whose stories we believe. seventy-five percent of autoimmune disease patients are women, and in some diseases, it's as high as 90 percent. even though these diseases disproportionately affect women, they are not women's diseases. me affects children and me affects millions of men. and as one patient told me, we get it coming and going — if you're a woman, you're told you're exaggerating your symptoms, but if you're a guy, you're told to be strong, to buck up. and men may even have a more difficult time getting diagnosed.my brain is not what it used to be.here's the good part: despite everything, i still have hope. so many diseases were once thought of as psychological until science uncovered their biological mechanisms. patients with epilepsy could be forcibly institutionalized until the eeg was able to measure abnormal electrical activity in the brain. multiple sclerosis could be misdiagnosed as hysterical paralysis until the cat scan and the mri discovered brain lesions. and recently, we used to think that stomach ulcers were just caused by stress, until we discovered that h. pylori was the culprit. me has never benefited from the kind of science that other diseases have had, but that's starting to change. in germany, scientists are starting to find evidence of autoimmunity, and in japan, of brain inflammation. in the us, scientists at stanford are finding abnormalities in energy metabolism that are 16 standard deviations away from normal. and in norway, researchers are running a phase-3 clinical trial on a cancer drug that in some patients causes complete remission.what also gives me hope is the resilience of patients. online we came together, and we shared our stories. we devoured what research there was. we experimented on ourselves. we became our own scientists and our own doctors because we had to be. and slowly i added five percent here, five percent there, until eventually, on a good day, i was able to leave my home. i still had to make ridiculous choices: will i sit in the garden for 15 minutes, or will i wash my hair today? but it gave me hope that i could be treated. i had a sick body; that was all. and with the right kind of help, maybe one day i could get better.i came together with patients around the world, and we started to fight. we have filled the void with something wonderful, but it is not enough. i still don't know if i will ever be able to run again, or walk at any distance, or do any of those kinetic things that i now only get to do in my dreams. but i am so grateful for how far i have come. progress is slow, and it is up and it is down, but i am getting a little better each day.i remember what it was like when i was stuck in that bedroom, when it had been months since i had seen the sun. i thought that i would die there. but here i am today, with you, and that is a miracle.i don't know what would have happened had i not been one of the lucky ones, had i gotten sick before the internet, had i not found my community. i probably would have already taken my own life, as so many others have done. how many lives could we have saved, decades ago, if we had asked the right questions? how many lives could we save today if we decide to make a real start?even once the true cause of my disease is discovered, if we don't change our institutions and our culture, we will do this again to another disease. living with this illness has taught me that science and medicine are profoundly human endeavors. doctors, scientists and policy makers are not immune to the same biases that affect all of us.we need to think in more nuanced ways about women's health. our immune systems are just as much a battleground for equality as the rest of our bodies. we need to listen to patients' stories, and we need to be willing to say, "i don't know." "i don't know" is a beautiful thing. "i don't know" is where discovery starts. and if we can do that, if we can approach the great vastness of all that we do not know, and then, rather than fear uncertainty, maybe we can greet it with a sense of wonder.thank you.thank you.<title = "How online abuse of women has spiraled out of control">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'Internet', 'activism', 'bullying', 'communication', 'computers', 'feminism', 'gaming', 'gender', 'global issues', 'policy', 'potential', 'sexual violence', 'social media', 'society', 'women', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Actor, activist">
[this talk contains graphic language and descriptions of sexual violence] [viewer discretion is advised]"ashley judd, stupid fucking slut."you can't sue someone for calling them a cunt.""if you can't handle the internet, fuck off, whore.""i wish ashley judd would die a horrible death. she is the absolute worst.""ashley judd, you're the reason women shouldn't vote.""'twisted' is such a bad movie, i don't even want to rape it.""whatever you do, don't tell ashley judd. she'll die alone with a dried out vagina.""if i had to fuck an older woman, oh my god, i would fuck the shit out of ashley judd, that bitch is hot af. the unforgivable shit i would do to her."online misogyny is a global gender rights tragedy, and it is imperative that it ends. girls' and women's voices, and our allies' voices are constrained in ways that are personally, economically, professionally and politically damaging. and when we curb abuse, we will expand freedom.i am a kentucky basketball fan, so on a fine march day last year, i was doing one of the things i do best: i was cheering for my wildcats. the daffodils were blooming, but the referees were not blowing the whistle when i was telling them to. funny, they're very friendly to me before the opening tip, but they really ignore me during the game. three of my players were bleeding, so i did the next best thing ... i tweeted.[@arkrazorback dirty play can kiss my team's free throw making a — @kysportsradio @marchmadness @espn bloodied 3 players so far.]it is routine for me to be treated in the ways i've already described to you. it happens to me every single day on social media platforms such as twitter and facebook. since i joined twitter in 2011, misogyny and misogynists have amply demonstrated they will dog my every step. my spirituality, my faith, being a hillbilly — i can say that, you can't — all of it is fair game.and i have responded to this with various strategies. i've tried engaging people. this one guy was sending me hypersexual, nasty stuff, and there was a girl in his avatar. i wrote him back and said ... "is that your daughter? i feel a lot of fear that you may think about and talk to women this way." and he surprised me by saying, "you know what? you're right. i apologize." sometimes people want to be held accountable. this one guy was musing to i don't know who that maybe i was the definition of a cunt. i was married to a scot for 14 years, so i said, "cunt means many different things in different countries — but i'm pretty sure you epitomize the global standard of a dick." i've tried to rise above it, i've tried to get in the trenches, but mostly i would scroll through these social media platforms with one eye partially closed, trying not to see it, but you can't make a cucumber out of a pickle. what is seen goes in. it's traumatic. and i was always secretly hoping in some part of me that what was being said to me and about me wasn't ... true. because even i, an avowed, self-declared feminist, who worships at the altar of gloria — internalize the patriarchy. this is really critical. patriarchy is not boys and men. it is a system in which we all participate, including me.on that particular day, for some reason, that particular tweet after the basketball game triggered something called a "cyber mob." this vitriolic, global outpouring of the most heinous hate speech: death threats, rape threats. and don't you know, when i was sitting at home alone in my nightgown, i got a phone call, and it was my beloved former husband, and he said on a voice mail, "loved one ... what is happening to you is not ok."and there was something about him taking a stand for me that night ... that allowed me to take a stand for myself. and i started to write. i started to write about sharing the fact that i'm a survivor of all forms of sexual abuse, including three rapes. and the hate speech i get in response to that — these are just some of the comments posted to news outlets. being told i'm a "snitch" is really fun.[jay: she enjoyed every second of it!!!!!]audience: oh, lord jesus.ashley judd: thank you, jesus. may your grace and mercy shine.so, i wrote this feminist op-ed, it is entitled, "forget your team: it is your online gender violence toward girls and women that can kiss my righteous ass." and i did that alone, and i published it alone, because my chief advisor said, "please don't, the rain of retaliatory garbage that is inevitable — i fear for you." but i trust girls and i trust women, and i trust our allies. it was published, it went viral, it proves that every single day online misogyny is a phenomenon endured by us all, all over the world, and when it is intersectional, it is worse. sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnicity, religion — you name it, it amplifies the violence endured by girls and women, and for our younger girls, it is worse.it's clearly traumatizing. our mental health, our emotional well-being are so gravely affected because the threat of violence is experienced neurobiologically as violence. the cortisol shoots up, the limbic system gets fired, we lose productivity at work.and let's talk about work. our ability to work is constrained. online searches of women applying for jobs reveal nude pictures of them, false allegations they have stds, their addresses indicating that they are available for sex with real examples of people showing up at this house for said sex.our ability to go to school is impaired. 96 percent of all postings of sexual images of our young people ... girls. our girls. our boys are two to three times more likely — nonconsensually — to share images.and i want to say a word about revenge porn. part of what came out of this tweet was my getting connected with allies and other activists who are fighting for a safe and free internet. we started something called the speech project; curbing abuse, expanding freedom. and that website provides a critical forum, because there is no global, legal thing to help us figure this out. but we do provide on that website a standardized list of definitions, because it's hard to attack a behavior in the right way if we're not all sharing a definition of what that behavior is. and i learned that revenge porn is often dangerously misapplied. it is the nonconsensual sharing of an image used tactically to shame and humiliate a girl or woman that attempts to pornography us. our natural sexuality is — i don't know about yours — pretty gorgeous and wonderful. and my expressing it does not pornography make. so, i have all these resources that i'm keenly aware so many people in the world do not. i was able to start the speech project with colleagues. i can often get a social media company's attention. i have a wonderful visit to facebook hq coming up. hasn't helped the idiotic reporting standards yet ... i actually pay someone to scrub my social media feeds, attempting to spare my brain the daily iterations of the trauma of hate speech. and guess what? i get hate speech for that. "oh, you live in an echo chamber." well, guess what? having someone post a photograph of me with my mouth open saying they "can't wait to cum on my face," i have a right to set that boundary. and this distinction between virtual and real is specious because guess what — that actually happened to me once when i was a child, and so that tweet brought up that trauma, and i had to do work on that.but you know what we do? we take all of this hate speech, and we disaggregate it, and we code it, and we give that data so that we understand the intersectionality of it: when i get porn, when it's about political affiliation, when it's about age, when it's about all of it. we're going to win this fight.there are a lot of solutions — thank goodness. i'm going to offer just a few, and of course i challenge you to create and contribute your own. number one: we have to start with digital media literacy, and clearly it must have a gendered lens. kids, schools, caregivers, parents: it's essential. two ... shall we talk about our friends in tech? said with dignity and respect, the sexism in your workplaces must end. (cheers)edge, the global standard for gender equality, is the minimum standard. and guess what, silicon valley? if l'oréal in india, in the philippines, in brazil and in russia can do it, you can, too. enough excuses. only when women have critical mass in every department at your companies, including building platforms from the ground up, will the conversations about priorities and solutions change.and more love for my friends in tech: profiteering off misogyny in video games must end. i'm so tired of hearing you talk to me at cocktail parties — like you did a couple weeks ago in aspen — about how deplorable #gamergate was, when you're still making billions of dollars off games that maim and dump women for sport. basta! — as the italians would say. enough. our friends in law enforcement have much to do, because we've seen that online violence is an extension of in-person violence. in our country, more girls and women have been murdered by their intimate partners than died on 9/11 and have died since in afghanistan and iraq combined. and it's not cool to say that, but it is true. we care so much geopolitically about what men are doing over there to women over there ... in 2015, 72,828 women used intimate partner violence services in this country. that is not counting the girls and women and boys who needed them. law enforcement must be empowered with up-to-date internet technology, the devices and an understanding of these platforms — how they work. the police wanted to be helpful when amanda hess called about the death threat she was getting on twitter, but they couldn't really when they said, "what's twitter?"our legislators must write and pass astute legislation that reflects today's technology and our notions of free and hate speech. in new york recently, the law could not be applied to a perpetrator because the crimes must have been committed — even if it was anonymous — they must have been committed by telephone, in mail, by telegraph — the language must be technologically neutral.so apparently, i've got a pretty bold voice. so, let's talk about our friends ... white men. you have a role to play and a choice to make. you can do something, or you can do nothing. we're cool in this room, but when this goes out, everyone will say, "oh my god, she's a reverse racist." that quote was said by a white man, robert moritz, chairperson, pricewaterhousecoopers, he asked me to include it in my talk.we need to grow support lines and help groups, so victims can help each other when their lives and finances have been derailed. we must as individuals disrupt gender violence as it is happening. 92 percent of young people 29 and under witness it. 72 percent of us have witnessed it. we must have the courage and urgency to practice stopping it as it is unfolding.and lastly, believe her. believe her. this is fundamentally a problem of human interaction. and as i believe that human interaction is at the core of our healing, trauma not transformed will be trauma transferred.edith wharton said, "the end is latent in the beginning," so we are going to end this talk replacing hate speech with love speech. because i get lonely in this, but i know that we are allies. i recently learned about how gratitude and affirmations offset negative interactions. it takes five of those to offset one negative interaction, and gratitude in particular — free, available globally any time, anywhere, to anyone in any dialect — it fires the pregenual anterior cingulate, a watershed part of the brain that floods it with great, good stuff. so i'm going to say awesome stuff about myself. i would like for you to reflect it back to me. it might sound something like this — i am a powerful and strong woman, and you would say, "yes, you are."audience: yes, you are.ashley judd: my mama loves me.a: yes, she does.aj: i did a great job with my talk.a: yes, you did.aj: i have a right to be here.a: yes, you do.aj: i'm really cute. a: yes, you are.aj: god does good work.a: yes, he does.aj: and i love you. thank you so much for letting me be of service.bless you. <title = "Art made of the air we breathe">
<tags = "['Anthropocene', 'TEDx', 'ancient world', 'animals', 'art', 'biosphere', 'demo', 'dinosaurs', 'environment', 'future', 'global issues', 'history', 'life', 'nature', 'performance art', 'pollution']">
<occupation = "Artist">
if i asked you to picture the air, what do you imagine? most people think about either empty space or clear blue sky or sometimes trees dancing in the wind. and then i remember my high school chemistry teacher with really long socks at the blackboard, drawing diagrams of bubbles connected to other bubbles, and describing how they vibrate and collide in a kind of frantic soup.but really, we tend not to think about the air that much at all. we notice it mostly when there's some kind of unpleasant sensory intrusion upon it, like a terrible smell or something visible like smoke or mist. but it's always there. it's touching all of us right now. it's even inside us. our air is immediate, vital and intimate. and yet, it's so easily forgotten.so what is the air? it's the combination of the invisible gases that envelop the earth, attracted by the earth's gravitational pull. and even though i'm a visual artist, i'm interested in the invisibility of the air. i'm interested in how we imagine it, how we experience it and how we all have an innate understanding of its materiality through breathing. all life on earth changes the air through gas exchange, and we're all doing it right now. actually, why don't we all right now together take one big, collective, deep breath in.ready? in. (inhales) and out. (exhales)that air that you just exhaled, you enriched a hundred times in carbon dioxide. so roughly five liters of air per breath, 17 breaths per minute of the 525,600 minutes per year, comes to approximately 45 million liters of air, enriched 100 times in carbon dioxide, just for you. now, that's equivalent to about 18 olympic-sized swimming pools.for me, air is plural. it's simultaneously as small as our breathing and as big as the planet. and it's kind of hard to picture. maybe it's impossible, and maybe it doesn't matter.through my visual arts practice, i try to make air, not so much picture it, but to make it visceral and tactile and haptic. i try to expand this notion of the aesthetic, how things look, so that it can include things like how it feels on your skin and in your lungs, and how your voice sounds as it passes through it. i explore the weight, density and smell, but most importantly, i think a lot about the stories we attach to different kinds of air.this is a work i made in 2014. it's called "different kinds of air: a plant's diary," where i was recreating the air from different eras in earth's evolution, and inviting the audience to come in and breathe them with me. and it's really surprising, so drastically different.now, i'm not a scientist, but atmospheric scientists will look for traces in the air chemistry in geology, a bit like how rocks can oxidize, and they'll extrapolate that information and aggregate it, such that they can pretty much form a recipe for the air at different times. then i come in as the artist and take that recipe and recreate it using the component gases.i was particularly interested in moments of time that are examples of life changing the air, but also the air that can influence how life will evolve, like carboniferous air. it's from about 300 to 350 million years ago. it's an era known as the time of the giants. so for the first time in the history of life, lignin evolves. that's the hard stuff that trees are made of. so trees effectively invent their own trunks at this time, and they get really big, bigger and bigger, and pepper the earth, releasing oxygen, releasing oxygen, releasing oxygen, such that the oxygen levels are about twice as high as what they are today. and this rich air supports massive insects — huge spiders and dragonflies with a wingspan of about 65 centimeters. to breathe, this air is really clean and really fresh. it doesn't so much have a flavor, but it does give your body a really subtle kind of boost of energy. it's really good for hangovers. or there's the air of the great dying — that's about 252.5 million years ago, just before the dinosaurs evolve. it's a really short time period, geologically speaking, from about 20- to 200,000 years. really quick. this is the greatest extinction event in earth's history, even bigger than when the dinosaurs died out. eighty-five to 95 percent of species at this time die out, and simultaneous to that is a huge, dramatic spike in carbon dioxide, that a lot of scientists agree comes from a simultaneous eruption of volcanoes and a runaway greenhouse effect. oxygen levels at this time go to below half of what they are today, so about 10 percent. so this air would definitely not support human life, but it's ok to just have a breath. and to breathe, it's oddly comforting. it's really calming, it's quite warm and it has a flavor a little bit like soda water. it has that kind of spritz, quite pleasant.so with all this thinking about air of the past, it's quite natural to start thinking about the air of the future. and instead of being speculative with air and just making up what i think might be the future air, i discovered this human-synthesized air. that means that it doesn't occur anywhere in nature, but it's made by humans in a laboratory for application in different industrial settings.why is it future air? well, this air is a really stable molecule that will literally be part of the air once it's released, for the next 300 to 400 years, before it's broken down. so that's about 12 to 16 generations. and this future air has some very sensual qualities. it's very heavy. it's about eight times heavier than the air we're used to breathing. it's so heavy, in fact, that when you breathe it in, whatever words you speak are kind of literally heavy as well, so they dribble down your chin and drop to the floor and soak into the cracks. it's an air that operates quite a lot like a liquid.now, this air comes with an ethical dimension as well. humans made this air, but it's also the most potent greenhouse gas that has ever been tested. its warming potential is 24,000 times that of carbon dioxide, and it has that longevity of 12 to 16 generations. so this ethical confrontation is really central to my work. (in a lowered voice) it has another quite surprising quality. it changes the sound of your voice quite dramatically. so when we start to think — ooh! it's still there a bit. when we think about climate change, we probably don't think about giant insects and erupting volcanoes or funny voices. the images that more readily come to mind are things like retreating glaciers and polar bears adrift on icebergs. we think about pie charts and column graphs and endless politicians talking to scientists wearing cardigans.but perhaps it's time we start thinking about climate change on the same visceral level that we experience the air. like air, climate change is simultaneously at the scale of the molecule, the breath and the planet. it's immediate, vital and intimate, as well as being amorphous and cumbersome. and yet, it's so easily forgotten.climate change is the collective self-portrait of humanity. it reflects our decisions as individuals, as governments and as industries. and if there's anything i've learned from looking at air, it's that even though it's changing, it persists. it may not support the kind of life that we'd recognize, but it will support something. and if we humans are such a vital part of that change, i think it's important that we can feel the discussion. because even though it's invisible, humans are leaving a very vibrant trace in the air.thank you. <title = "How to have better political conversations">
<tags = "['Debate', 'TEDx', 'communication', 'democracy', 'empathy', 'government', 'humanity', 'identity', 'language', 'morality', 'personal growth', 'politics', 'psychology', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Social psychologist">
so you probably have the sense, as most people do, that polarization is getting worse in our country, that the divide between the left and the right is as bad as it's been in really any of our lifetimes. but you might also reasonably wonder if research backs up your intuition. and in a nutshell, the answer is sadly yes. in study after study, we find that liberals and conservatives have grown further apart. they increasingly wall themselves off in these ideological silos, consuming different news, talking only to like-minded others and more and more choosing to live in different parts of the country.and i think that most alarming of all of it is seeing this rising animosity on both sides. liberals and conservatives, democrats and republicans, more and more they just don't like one another. you see it in many different ways. they don't want to befriend one another. they don't want to date one another. if they do, if they find out, they find each other less attractive, and they more and more don't want their children to marry someone who supports the other party, a particularly shocking statistic.you know, in my lab, the students that i work with, we're talking about some sort of social pattern — i'm a movie buff, and so i'm often like, what kind of movie are we in here with this pattern? so what kind of movie are we in with political polarization? well, it could be a disaster movie. it certainly seems like a disaster. could be a war movie. also fits. but what i keep thinking is that we're in a zombie apocalypse movie. right? you know the kind. there's people wandering around in packs, not thinking for themselves, seized by this mob mentality trying to spread their disease and destroy society. and you probably think, as i do, that you're the good guy in the zombie apocalypse movie, and all this hate and polarization, it's being propagated by the other people, because we're brad pitt, right? free-thinking, righteous, just trying to hold on to what we hold dear, you know, not foot soldiers in the army of the undead. not that. never that.but here's the thing: what movie do you suppose they think they're in? right? well, they absolutely think that they're the good guys in the zombie apocalypse movie. right? and you'd better believe that they think that they're brad pitt and that we, we are the zombies. and who's to say that they're wrong? i think that the truth is that we're all a part of this. and the good side of that is that we can be a part of the solution.so what are we going to do? what can we do to chip away at polarization in everyday life? what could we do to connect with and communicate with our political counterparts? well, these were exactly the questions that i and my colleague, matt feinberg, became fascinated with a few years ago, and we started doing research on this topic. and one of the first things that we discovered that i think is really helpful for understanding polarization is to understand that the political divide in our country is undergirded by a deeper moral divide.so one of the most robust findings in the history of political psychology is this pattern identified by jon haidt and jesse graham, psychologists, that liberals and conservatives tend to endorse different values to different degrees. so for example, we find that liberals tend to endorse values like equality and fairness and care and protection from harm more than conservatives do. and conservatives tend to endorse values like loyalty, patriotism, respect for authority and moral purity more than liberals do. and matt and i were thinking that maybe this moral divide might be helpful for understanding how it is that liberals and conservatives talk to one another and why they so often seem to talk past one another when they do.so we conducted a study where we recruited liberals to a study where they were supposed to write a persuasive essay that would be compelling to a conservative in support of same-sex marriage. and what we found was that liberals tended to make arguments in terms of the liberal moral values of equality and fairness. so they said things like, "everyone should have the right to love whoever they choose," and, "they" — they being gay americans — "deserve the same equal rights as other americans." overall, we found that 69 percent of liberals invoked one of the more liberal moral values in constructing their essay, and only nine percent invoked one of the more conservative moral values, even though they were supposed to be trying to persuade conservatives. and when we studied conservatives and had them make persuasive arguments in support of making english the official language of the us, a classically conservative political position, we found that they weren't much better at this. 59 percent of them made arguments in terms of one of the more conservative moral values, and just eight percent invoked a liberal moral value, even though they were supposed to be targeting liberals for persuasion.now, you can see right away why we're in trouble here. right? people's moral values, they're their most deeply held beliefs. people are willing to fight and die for their values. why are they going to give that up just to agree with you on something that they don't particularly want to agree with you on anyway? if that persuasive appeal that you're making to your republican uncle means that he doesn't just have to change his view, he's got to change his underlying values, too, that's not going to go very far.so what would work better? well, we believe it's a technique that we call moral reframing, and we've studied it in a series of experiments. in one of these experiments, we recruited liberals and conservatives to a study where they read one of three essays before having their environmental attitudes surveyed. and the first of these essays was a relatively conventional pro-environmental essay that invoked the liberal values of care and protection from harm. it said things like, "in many important ways we are causing real harm to the places we live in," and, "it is essential that we take steps now to prevent further destruction from being done to our earth." another group of participants were assigned to read a really different essay that was designed to tap into the conservative value of moral purity. it was a pro-environmental essay as well, and it said things like, "keeping our forests, drinking water, and skies pure is of vital importance." "we should regard the pollution of the places we live in to be disgusting." and, "reducing pollution can help us preserve what is pure and beautiful about the places we live." and then we had a third group that were assigned to read just a nonpolitical essay. it was just a comparison group so we could get a baseline.and what we found when we surveyed people about their environmental attitudes afterwards, we found that liberals, it didn't matter what essay they read. they tended to have highly pro-environmental attitudes regardless. liberals are on board for environmental protection. conservatives, however, were significantly more supportive of progressive environmental policies and environmental protection if they had read the moral purity essay than if they read one of the other two essays. we even found that conservatives who read the moral purity essay were significantly more likely to say that they believed in global warming and were concerned about global warming, even though this essay didn't even mention global warming. that's just a related environmental issue. but that's how robust this moral reframing effect was.and we've studied this on a whole slew of different political issues. so if you want to move conservatives on issues like same-sex marriage or national health insurance, it helps to tie these liberal political issues to conservative values like patriotism and moral purity. and we studied it the other way, too. if you want to move liberals to the right on conservative policy issues like military spending and making english the official language of the us, you're going to be more persuasive if you tie those conservative policy issues to liberal moral values like equality and fairness.all these studies have the same clear message: if you want to persuade someone on some policy, it's helpful to connect that policy to their underlying moral values. and when you say it like that it seems really obvious. right? like, why did we come here tonight? why — it's incredibly intuitive. and even though it is, it's something we really struggle to do. you know, it turns out that when we go to persuade somebody on a political issue, we talk like we're speaking into a mirror. we don't persuade so much as we rehearse our own reasons for why we believe some sort of political position. we kept saying when we were designing these reframed moral arguments, "empathy and respect, empathy and respect." if you can tap into that, you can connect and you might be able to persuade somebody in this country.so thinking again about what movie we're in, maybe i got carried away before. maybe it's not a zombie apocalypse movie. maybe instead it's a buddy cop movie. just roll with it, just go with it please. you know the kind: there's a white cop and a black cop, or maybe a messy cop and an organized cop. whatever it is, they don't get along because of this difference. but in the end, when they have to come together and they cooperate, the solidarity that they feel, it's greater because of that gulf that they had to cross. right? and remember that in these movies, it's usually worst in the second act when our leads are further apart than ever before. and so maybe that's where we are in this country, late in the second act of a buddy cop movie — torn apart but about to come back together. it sounds good, but if we want it to happen, i think the responsibility is going to start with us.so this is my call to you: let's put this country back together. let's do it despite the politicians and the media and facebook and twitter and congressional redistricting and all of it, all the things that divide us. let's do it because it's right. and let's do it because this hate and contempt that flows through all of us every day makes us ugly and it corrupts us, and it threatens the very fabric of our society. we owe it to one another and our country to reach out and try to connect. we can't afford to hate them any longer, and we can't afford to let them hate us either. empathy and respect. empathy and respect. if you think about it, it's the very least that we owe our fellow citizens.thank you. <title = "The ethical dilemma of designer babies">
<tags = "['AIDS', 'Bioethics', 'CRISPR', 'DNA', 'HIV', 'TEDx', 'biology', 'biotech', 'children', 'choice', 'discovery', 'genetics', 'health', 'humanity', 'identity', 'innovation', 'molecular biology', 'nature', 'parenting', 'policy', 'science', 'social change', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Biologist">
so what if i could make for you a designer baby? what if you as a parent-to-be and i as a scientist decided to go down that road together?what if we didn't? what if we thought, "that's a bad idea," but many of our family, friends and coworkers did make that decision?let's fast-forward just 15 years from now. let's pretend it's the year 2030, and you're a parent. you have your daughter, marianne, next to you, and in 2030, she is what we call a natural because she has no genetic modifications. and because you and your partner consciously made that decision, many in your social circle, they kind of look down on you. they think you're, like, a luddite or a technophobe.marianne's best friend jenna, who lives right next door, is a very different story. she was born a genetically modified designer baby with numerous upgrades. yeah. upgrades. and these enhancements were introduced using a new genetic modification technology that goes by the funny name crispr, you know, like something's crisp, this is crispr. the scientist that jenna's parents hired to do this for several million dollars introduced crispr into a whole panel of human embryos. and then they used genetic testing, and they predicted that that little tiny embryo, jenna's embryo, would be the best of the bunch. and now, jenna is an actual, real person. she's sitting on the carpet in your living room playing with your daughter marianne. and your families have known each other for years now, and it's become very clear to you that jenna is extraordinary. she's incredibly intelligent. if you're honest with yourself, she's smarter than you, and she's five years old. she's beautiful, tall, athletic, and the list goes on and on. and in fact, there's a whole new generation of these gm kids like jenna. and so far it looks like they're healthier than their parents' generation, than your generation. and they have lower health care costs. they're immune to a host of health conditions, including hiv/aids and genetic diseases.it all sounds so great, but you can't help but have this sort of unsettling feeling, a gut feeling, that there's something just not quite right about jenna, and you've had the same feeling about other gm kids that you've met. you were also reading in the newspaper earlier this week that a study of these children who were born as designer babies indicates they may have some issues, like increased aggressiveness and narcissism. but more immediately on your mind is some news that you just got from jenna's family. she's so smart, she's now going to be going to a special school, a different school than your daughter marianne, and this is kind of throwing your family into a disarray. marianne's been crying, and last night when you took her to bed to kiss her goodnight, she said, "daddy, will jenna even be my friend anymore?"so now, as i've been telling you this imagined 2030 story, i have a feeling that i may have put some of you into this sci-fi frame of reference. right? you think you're reading a sci-fi book. or maybe, like, in halloween mode of thinking. but this is really a possible reality for us, just 15 years from now.i'm a stem cell and genetics researcher and i can see this new crispr technology and its potential impact. and we may find ourselves in that reality, and a lot will depend on what we decide to do today. and if you're still kind of thinking in sci-fi mode, consider that the world of science had a huge shock earlier this year, and the public largely doesn't even know about it. researchers in china just a few months ago reported the creation of genetically modified human embryos. this was the first time in history. and they did it using this new crispr technology. it didn't work perfectly, but i still think they sort of cracked the door ajar on a pandora's box here. and i think some people are going to run with this technology and try to make designer babies.now, before i go on, some of you may hold up your hands and say, "stop, paul, wait a minute. wouldn't that be illegal? you can't just go off and create a designer baby." and in fact, to some extent, you're right. in some countries, you couldn't do that. but in many other countries, including my country, the us, there's actually no law on this, so in theory, you could do it. and there was another development this year that resonates in this area, and that happened not so far from here over in the uk. and the uk traditionally has been the strictest country when it comes to human genetic modification. it was illegal there, but just a few months ago, they carved out an exception to that rule. they passed a new law allowing the creation of genetically modified humans with the noble goal of trying to prevent a rare kind of genetic disease. but still i think in combination these events are pushing us further towards an acceptance of human genetic modification.so i've been talking about this crispr technology. what actually is crispr? so if you think about the gmos that we're all more familiar with, like gmo tomatoes and wheat and things like that, this technology is similar to the technologies that were used to make those, but it's dramatically better, cheaper and faster.so what is it? it's actually like a genetic swiss army knife. we can pretend this is a swiss army knife with different tools in it, and one of the tools is kind of like a magnifying glass or a gps for our dna, so it can home in on a certain spot. and the next tool is like scissors that can cut the dna right in that spot. and finally we have a pen where we can literally rewrite the genetic code in that location. it's really that simple.and this technology, which came on the scene just three years ago, has taken science by storm. it's evolving so fast, and it's so freaking exciting to scientists, and i admit i'm fascinated by it and we use it in my own lab, that i think someone is going to go that extra step and continue the gm human embryo work and maybe make designer babies. this is so ubiquitous now. it just came on the scene three years ago. thousands of labs literally have this in hand today, and they're doing important research. most of them are not interested in designer babies. they're studying human disease and other important elements of science. so there's a lot of good research going on with crispr. and the fact that we can now do genetic modifications that used to take years and cost millions of dollars in a few weeks for a couple thousand bucks, to me as a scientist that's fantastic, but again, at the same time, it opens the door to people going too far. and i think for some people the focus is not going to be so much on science. that's not what's going to be driving them. it's going to be ideology or the chase for a profit. and they're going to go for designer babies.so why should we be concerned about this? we know from darwin, if we go back two centuries, that evolution and genetics profoundly have impacted humanity, who we are today. and some think there's like a social darwinism at work in our world, and maybe even a eugenics as well. imagine those trends, those forces, with a booster rocket of this crispr technology that is so powerful and so ubiquitous. and in fact, we can just go back one century to the last century to see the power that eugenics can have.so my father, peter knoepfler, was actually born right here in vienna. he was viennese, and he was born here in 1929. and when my grandparents had little baby peter, the world was very different. right? it was a different vienna. the united states was different. the world was different. there was a eugenics rising, and my grandparents realized, pretty quickly i think, that they were on the wrong side of the eugenics equation. and so despite this being their home and their whole extended family's home, and this area being their family's home for generations, they decided because of eugenics that they had to leave. and they survived, but they were heartbroken, and i'm not sure my dad ever really got over leaving vienna. he left when he was just eight years old in 1938.so today, i see a new eugenics kind of bubbling to the surface. it's supposed to be a kinder, gentler, positive eugenics, different than all that past stuff. but i think even though it's focused on trying to improve people, it could have negative consequences, and it really worries me that some of the top proponents of this new eugenics, they think crispr is the ticket to make it happen.so i have to admit, you know, eugenics, we talk about making better people. it's a tough question. what is better when we're talking about a human being? but i admit i think maybe a lot of us could agree that human beings, maybe we could use a little betterment. look at our politicians here, you know, back in the us — god forbid we go there right now. maybe even if we just look in the mirror, there might be ways we think we could be better. i might wish, honestly, that i had more hair here, instead of baldness. some people might wish they were taller, have a different weight, a different face. if we could do those things, we could make those things happen, or we could make them happen in our children, it would be very seductive. and yet coming with it would be these risks. i talked about eugenics, but there would be risks to individuals as well. so if we forget about enhancing people and we just try to make them healthier using genetic modification, this technology is so new and so powerful, that by accident we could make them sicker. that easily could happen. and there's another risk, and that is that all of the legitimate, important genetic modification research going on just in the lab — again, no interest in designer babies — a few people going the designer baby route, things go badly, that entire field could be damaged.i also think it's not that unlikely that governments might start taking an interest in genetic modification. so for example our imagined gm jenna child who is healthier, if there's a generation that looks like they have lower health care costs, it's possible that governments may start trying to compel their citizens to go the gm route. look at china's one-child policy. it's thought that that prevented the birth of 400 million human beings. so it's not beyond the realm of possible that genetic modification could be something that governments push. and if designer babies become popular, in our digital age — viral videos, social media — what if designer babies are thought to be fashionable, and they kind of become the new glitterati, the new kardashians or something? you know, are those trends that we really could control? i'm not convinced that we could.so again, today it's halloween and when we talk about genetic modification, there's one halloween-associated character that is talked about or invoked more than anything else, and that is frankenstein. mostly that's been frankenfoods and all this other stuff. but if we think about this now and we think about it in the human context on a day like halloween, if parents can in essence costume their children genetically, are we going to be talking about a frankenstein 2.0 kind of situation? i don't think so. i don't think it's going to get to that extreme. but when we are going about hacking the human code, i think all bets are off in terms of what might come of that. there would still be dangers. and we can look in the past to other elements of transformative science and see how they can basically go out of control and permeate society.so i'll just give you one example, and that is in vitro fertilization. almost exactly 40 years ago, test tube baby number one louise brown was born, and that's a great thing, and i think since then five million ivf babies have been born, bringing immeasurable happiness. a lot of parents now can love those kids. but if you think about it, in four decades, five million babies being born from a new technology is pretty remarkable, and the same kind of thing could happen with human genetic modification and designer babies. so depending on the decisions we make in the next few months, the next year or so, if designer baby number one is born, within a few decades, there could well be millions of genetically modified humans. and there's a difference there too, because if we, you in the audience, or i, if we decide to have a designer baby, then their children will also be genetically modified, and so on, because it's heritable. so that's a big difference.so with all of this in mind, what should we do? there's actually going to be a meeting a month from tomorrow in washington, d.c. by the us national academy of sciences to tackle that exact question. what is the right path forward with human genetic modification? i believe at this time we need a moratorium. we have to ban this. we should not allow creating genetically modified people, because it's just too dangerous and too unpredictable. but there's a lot of people — thanks. and let me say, just as a scientist, it's a little bit scary for me to say that in public, because science generally doesn't like self-regulation and things like that. so i think we need to put a hold on this, but there are many people who not only disagree with me, they feel the exact opposite. they're like, step on the gas, full speed ahead, let's make designer babies. and so in the meeting in december and other meetings that are likely to follow in the next few months, it's very possible there may be no moratorium. and i think part of the problem that we have is that all of this trend, this revolution in genetic modification applying to humans, the public hasn't known about it. nobody has been saying, look, this is a big deal, this is a revolution, and this could affect you in very personal ways. and so part of my goal is actually to change that and to educate and engage with the public and get you guys talking about this. and so i hope at these meetings that there will be a role for the public to bring their voice to bear as well.so if we kind of circle back now to 2030 again, that imagined story, and depending on the decisions we make, again, today — literally we don't have a lot of time — in the next few months, the next year or so, because this technology is spreading like wildfire. let's pretend we're back in that reality. we're at a park, and our kid is swinging on the swing. is that kid a regular old kid, or did we decide to have a designer baby? and let's say we went the sort of traditional route, and there's our kid swinging on the swing, and frankly, they're kind of a mess. their hair is all over the place like mine. they have a stuffy nose. they're not the best student in the world. they're adorable, you love them, but there on the swing next to them, their best friend is a gm kid, and the two of them are kind of swinging like this, and you can't help but compare them, right? and the gm kid is swinging higher, they look better, they're a better student, they don't have that stuffy nose you need to wipe. how is that going to make you feel and what decision might you make next time?thank you. <title = "Buildings that blend nature and city">
<tags = "['MacArthur grant', 'architecture', 'beauty', 'cities', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'community', 'design', 'environment', 'future', 'humanity', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'nature', 'public spaces', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Architect">
i'm a relationship builder. when you think of a relationship builder, don't you just automatically think "architect?" probably not. that's because most people think architects design buildings and cities, but what we really design are relationships, because cities are about people. they're places where people come together for all kinds of exchange. and besides, skylines are highly specific urban habitats with their own insects, plants and animals, and even their own weather.but today, urban habitats are out of balance. climate change, together with political and economic troubles, are having an impact; they're adding up and stressing out cities and us, the people who live in them.for me, the field of ecology has provided important insight, because ecologists don't just look at individual species on their own, they look at the relationships between living things and their environment. they look at how all the diverse parts of the ecosystem are interconnected, and it's actually this balance, this web of life, that sustains life. my team and i have been applying insights from ecology to architecture to see how physical space can help build stronger relationships. the projects i'm going to show you today use the idea of building relationships as the key driver for design.here's an example of what i mean. recently, we were asked to design a center for social justice leadership called the arcus center. they asked us for a building that could break down traditional barriers between different groups and in doing so, create possibilities for meaningful conversations around social justice. the students wanted a place for cultural exchange. they thought a place for preparing food together could do that. and they wanted to be welcoming to the outside community. they thought a fireplace could draw people in and help start conversations. and everybody wanted the work of social justice to be visible to the outside world. there really wasn't a precedent for this kind of space, so we looked around the globe and found examples of community meeting houses. community meeting houses are places where there's very specific relationships between people, like this one in mali, where the elders gather. the low roof keeps everybody seated and at equal eye level. it's very egalitarian. i mean, you can't stand up and take over the meeting. you'd actually bump your head. in meeting houses, there's always a central space where you can sit around a circle and see each other. so we designed a space just like that right in the middle of the arcus center, and we anchored it with a fireplace and a kitchen. it's pretty hard to get a kitchen and a fireplace in a building like this with the building codes, but it was so important to the concept, we got it done. and now the central space works for big social gatherings and a place to meet one-on-one for the very first time. it's almost like this three-way intersection that encourages bumping into people and starting a conversation. now you can always pass the kitchen and see something going on. you can sit by the fireplace and share stories. you can study together in big groups or in small ones, because the architecture sets up these opportunities.even the construction is about building relationships. it's made of cordwood masonry, which is using logs the way you would use bricks. it's super low-tech and easy to do and anyone can do it — and that's the entire point. the act of making is a social activity.and it's good for the planet, too: the trees absorbed carbon when they were growing up, and they gave off oxygen, and now that carbon is trapped inside the walls and it's not being released into the atmosphere. so making the walls is equivalent to taking cars right off the road. we chose the building method because it connects people to each other and to the environment.but is it working? is it creating relationships and nurturing them? how can we know? well, more and more people are coming here, for one, and as a result of the fireside chats and a full calendar of programming, people are applying for the arcus fellowships. in fact, applications have increased tenfold for the arcus fellowship since the building opened. it's working. it's bringing people together.so i've shown how architecture can connect people on this kind of horizontal campus scale. but we wondered if social relationships could be scaled up — or rather, upward — in tall buildings. tall buildings don't necessarily lend themselves to being social buildings. they can seem isolating and inward. you might only see people in those awkward elevator rides. but in several major cities, i've been designing tall buildings that are based on creating relationships between people.this is aqua. it's a residential high-rise in chicago aimed at young urban professionals and empty nesters, many of them new to the city. with over 700 apartments, we wanted to see if we could use architecture to help people get to know their neighbors, even when their homes are organized in the vertical dimension. so we invented a way to use balconies as the new social connectors. the shapes of the floor slabs vary slightly and they transition as you go up the tower. the result of this is that you can actually see people from your balcony. the balconies are misregistered. you can lean over your balcony and say, "hey!" just like you would across the backyard. to make the balconies more comfortable for a longer period of time during the year, we studied the wind with digital simulations, so the effect of the balcony shapes breaks up the wind and confuses the wind and makes the balconies more comfortable and less windy.now, just by being able to go outside on your balcony or on the third floor roof terrace, you can be connected to the outdoors, even when you're way above the ground plane. so the building acts to create community within the building and the city at the same time. it's working. and people are starting to meet each other on the building surface and we've heard — they've even starting getting together as couples. but besides romantic relationships, the building has a positive social effect on the community, as evidenced by people starting groups together and starting big projects together, like this organic community garden on the building's roof terrace.so i've shown how tall buildings can be social connectors, but what about public architecture? how can we create better social cohesion in public buildings and civic spaces, and why is it important? public architecture is just not as successful if it comes from the top down.about 15 years ago in chicago, they started to replace old police stations, and they built this identical model all over the city. and even though they had good intentions of treating all neighborhoods equally, the communities didn't feel invested in the process or feel a sense of ownership of these buildings. it was equality in the sense that everybody gets the same police station, but it wasn't equity in the sense of responding to each community's individual needs. and equity is the key issue here.you know, in my field, there's a debate about whether architecture can even do anything to improve social relationships. but i believe that we need architecture and every tool in our tool kit to improve these relationships. in the us, policy reforms have been recommended in order to rebuild trust. but my team and i wondered if design and a more inclusive design process could help add something positive to this policy conversation. we asked ourselves simply: can design help rebuild trust?so we reached out to community members and police officers in north lawndale; it's a neighborhood in chicago where the police station is perceived as a scary fortress surrounded by a parking lot. in north lawndale, people are afraid of police and of going anywhere near the police station, even to report a crime. so we organized this brainstorming session with both groups participating, and we came up with this whole new idea for the police station. it's called "polis station." "polis" is a greek word that means a place with a sense of community. it's based on the idea that if you can increase opportunities for positive social interactions between police and community members, you can rebuild that relationship and activate the neighborhood at the same time.instead of the police station as a scary fortress, you get highly active spaces on the public side of the station — places that spark conversation, like a barbershop, a coffee shop or sports courts as well. both cops and kids said they love sports. these insights came directly from the community members and the police officers themselves, and as designers, our role was just to connect the dots and suggest the first step. so with the help of the city and the parks, we were able to raise funds and design and build a half-court, right on the police station parking lot.it's a start. but is it rebuilding trust? the people in north lawndale say the kids are using the courts every day and they even organize tournaments like this one shown here, and once in a while an officer joins in. but now, they even have basketballs inside the station that kids can borrow. and recently they've asked us to expand the courts and build a park on the site. and parents report something astonishing. before, there was fear of going anywhere the station, and now they say there's a sense that the court is safer than other courts nearby, and they prefer their kids to play here.so maybe in the future, on the public side of the station, you might be able to drop in for a haircut at the barbershop or reserve the community room for a birthday party or renew your driver's license or get money out of an atm. it can be a place for neighbors to meet each other and to get to know the officers, and vice versa. this is not a utopian fantasy. it's about how do you design to rebuild trust, trusting relationships?you know, every city has parks, libraries, schools and other public buildings that have the potential to be reimagined as social connectors. but reimagining the buildings for the future is going to require engaging the people who live there. engaging the public can be intimidating, and i've felt that, too. but maybe that's because in architecture school, we don't really learn how to engage the public in the act of design. we're taught to defend our design against criticism. but i think that can change, too.so if we can focus the design mind on creating positive, reinforcing relationships in architecture and through architecture, i believe we can do much more than create individual buildings. we can reduce the stress and the polarization in our urban habitats. we can create relationships. we can help steady this planet we all share.see? architects really are relationship builders. thank you very much. <title = "Where is cybercrime really coming from?">
<tags = "['computers', 'crime', 'data', 'hack']">
<occupation = "Cybercrime fighter">
cybercrime is out of control. it's everywhere. we hear about it every single day. this year, over two billion records lost or stolen. and last year, 100 million of us, mostly americans, lost our health insurance data to thieves — myself included. what's particularly concerning about this is that in most cases, it was months before anyone even reported that these records were stolen.so if you watch the evening news, you would think that most of this is espionage or nation-state activity. and, well, some of it is. espionage, you see, is an accepted international practice. but in this case, it is only a small portion of the problem that we're dealing with. how often do we hear about a breach followed by, "... it was the result of a sophisticated nation-state attack?" well, often that is companies not being willing to own up to their own lackluster security practices. there is also a widely held belief that by blaming an attack on a nation-state, you are putting regulators at bay — at least for a period of time.so where is all of this coming from? the united nations estimates that 80 percent of it is from highly organized and ultrasophisticated criminal gangs. to date, this represents one of the largest illegal economies in the world, topping out at, now get this, 445 billion dollars. let me put that in perspective for all of you: 445 billion dollars is larger than the gdp of 160 nations, including ireland, finland, denmark and portugal, to name a few.so how does this work? how do these criminals operate? well, let me tell you a little story. about a year ago, our security researchers were tracking a somewhat ordinary but sophisticated banking trojan called the dyre wolf. the dyre wolf would get on your computer via you clicking on a link in a phishing email that you probably shouldn't have. it would then sit and wait. it would wait until you logged into your bank account. and when you did, the bad guys would reach in, steal your credentials, and then use that to steal your money. this sounds terrible, but the reality is, in the security industry, this form of attack is somewhat commonplace. however, the dyre wolf had two distinctly different personalities — one for these small transactions, but it took on an entirely different persona if you were in the business of moving large-scale wire transfers.here's what would happen. you start the process of issuing a wire transfer, and up in your browser would pop a screen from your bank, indicating that there's a problem with your account, and that you need to call the bank immediately, along with the number to the bank's fraud department. so you pick up the phone and you call. and after going through the normal voice prompts, you're met with an english-speaking operator. "hello, altoro mutual bank. how can i help you?" and you go through the process like you do every time you call your bank, of giving them your name and your account number, going through the security checks to verify you are who you said you are. most of us may not know this, but in many large-scale wire transfers, it requires two people to sign off on the wire transfer, so the operator then asks you to get the second person on the line, and goes through the same set of verifications and checks.sounds normal, right? only one problem: you're not talking to the bank. you're talking to the criminals. they had built an english-speaking help desk, fake overlays to the banking website. and this was so flawlessly executed that they were moving between a half a million and a million and a half dollars per attempt into their criminal coffers.these criminal organizations operate like highly regimented, legitimate businesses. their employees work monday through friday. they take the weekends off. how do we know this? we know this because our security researchers see repeated spikes of malware on a friday afternoon. the bad guys, after a long weekend with the wife and kids, come back in to see how well things went.the dark web is where they spend their time. that is a term used to describe the anonymous underbelly of the internet, where thieves can operate with anonymity and without detection. here they peddle their attack software and share information on new attack techniques. you can buy everything there, from a base-level attack to a much more advanced version. in fact, in many cases, you even see gold, silver and bronze levels of service. you can check references. you can even buy attacks that come with a money-back guarantee — if you're not successful. now, these environments, these marketplaces — they look like an amazon or an ebay. you see products, prices, ratings and reviews. of course, if you're going to buy an attack, you're going to buy from a reputable criminal with good ratings, right? this isn't any different than checking on yelp or tripadvisor before going to a new restaurant. so, here is an example. this is an actual screenshot of a vendor selling malware. notice they're a vendor level four, they have a trust level of six. they've had 400 positive reviews in the last year, and only two negative reviews in the last month. we even see things like licensing terms. here's an example of a site you can go to if you want to change your identity. they will sell you a fake id, fake passports. but note the legally binding terms for purchasing your fake id. give me a break. what are they going to do — sue you if you violate them? this occurred a couple of months ago. one of our security researchers was looking at a new android malware application that we had discovered. it was called bilal bot. in a blog post, she positioned bilal bot as a new, inexpensive and beta alternative to the much more advanced gm bot that was commonplace in the criminal underground.this review did not sit well with the authors of bilal bot. so they wrote her this very email, pleading their case and making the argument that they felt she had evaluated an older version. they asked her to please update her blog with more accurate information and even offered to do an interview to describe to her in detail how their attack software was now far better than the competition.so look, you don't have to like what they do, but you do have to respect the entrepreneurial nature of their endeavors. so how are we going to stop this? it's not like we're going to be able to identify who's responsible — remember, they operate with anonymity and outside the reach of the law. we're certainly not going to be able to prosecute the offenders. i would propose that we need a completely new approach. and that approach needs to be centered on the idea that we need to change the economics for the bad guys.and to give you a perspective on how this can work, let's think of the response we see to a healthcare pandemic: sars, ebola, bird flu, zika. what is the top priority? it's knowing who is infected and how the disease is spreading. now, governments, private institutions, hospitals, physicians — everyone responds openly and quickly. this is a collective and altruistic effort to stop the spread in its tracks and to inform anyone not infected how to protect or inoculate themselves.unfortunately, this is not at all what we see in response to a cyber attack. organizations are far more likely to keep information on that attack to themselves. why? because they're worried about competitive advantage, litigation or regulation. we need to effectively democratize threat intelligence data. we need to get all of these organizations to open up and share what is in their private arsenal of information. the bad guys are moving fast; we've got to move faster. and the best way to do that is to open up and share data on what's happening.let's think about this in the construct of security professionals. remember, they're programmed right into their dna to keep secrets. we've got to turn that thinking on its head. we've got to get governments, private institutions and security companies willing to share information at speed. and here's why: because if you share the information, it's equivalent to inoculation. and if you're not sharing, you're actually part of the problem, because you're increasing the odds that other people could be impacted by the same attack techniques.but there's an even bigger benefit. by destroying criminals' devices closer to real time, we break their plans. we inform the people they aim to hurt far sooner than they had ever anticipated. we ruin their reputations, we crush their ratings and reviews. we make cybercrime not pay. we change the economics for the bad guys. but to do this, a first mover was required — someone to change the thinking in the security industry overall.about a year ago, my colleagues and i had a radical idea. what if ibm were to take our data — we had one of the largest threat intelligence databases in the world — and open it up? it had information not just on what had happened in the past, but what was happening in near-real time. what if we were to publish it all openly on the internet? as you can imagine, this got quite a reaction. first came the lawyers: what are the legal implications of doing that? then came the business: what are the business implications of doing that? and this was also met with a good dose of a lot of people just asking if we were completely crazy.but there was one conversation that kept floating to the surface in every dialogue that we would have: the realization that if we didn't do this, then we were part of the problem. so we did something unheard of in the security industry. we started publishing. over 700 terabytes of actionable threat intelligence data, including information on real-time attacks that can be used to stop cybercrime in its tracks. and to date, over 4,000 organizations are leveraging this data, including half of the fortune 100. and our hope as a next step is to get all of those organizations to join us in the fight, and do the same thing and share their information on when and how they're being attacked as well.we all have the opportunity to stop it, and we already all know how. all we have to do is look to the response that we see in the world of health care, and how they respond to a pandemic. simply put, we need to be open and collaborative.thank you. <title = "What we don't know about Europe's Muslim kids">
<tags = "['Europe', 'Middle East', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'children', 'community', 'family', 'humanity', 'identity', 'motivation', 'social change', 'society', 'terrorism', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Filmmaker">
when i was a child, i knew i had superpowers. that's right. i thought i was absolutely amazing because i could understand and relate to the feelings of brown people, like my grandfather, a conservative muslim guy. and also, i could understand my afghan mother, my pakistani father, not so religious but laid-back, fairly liberal. and of course, i could understand and relate to the feelings of white people. the white norwegians of my country. you know, white, brown, whatever — i loved them all. i understood them all, even if they didn't always understand each other; they were all my people.my father, though, was always really worried. he kept saying that even with the best education, i was not going to get a fair shake. i would still face discrimination, according to him. and that the only way to be accepted by white people would be to become famous. now, mind you, he had this conversation with me when i was seven years old. so while i'm seven years old, he said, "look, so it's either got to be sports, or it's got to be music." he didn't know anything about sports — bless him — so it was music. so when i was seven years old, he gathered all my toys, all my dolls, and he threw them all away. in exchange he gave me a crappy little casio keyboard and — yeah. and singing lessons. and he forced me, basically, to practice for hours and hours every single day. very quickly, he also had me performing for larger and larger audiences, and bizarrely, i became almost a kind of poster child for norwegian multiculturalism. i felt very proud, of course. because even the newspapers at this point were starting to write nice things about brown people, so i could feel that my superpower was growing.so when i was 12 years old, walking home from school, i took a little detour because i wanted to buy my favorite sweets called "salty feet." i know they sound kind of awful, but i absolutely love them. they're basically these little salty licorice bits in the shape of feet. and now that i say it out loud, i realize how terrible that sounds, but be that as it may, i absolutely love them. so on my way into the store, there was this grown white guy in the doorway blocking my way. so i tried to walk around him, and as i did that, he stopped me and he was staring at me, and he spit in my face, and he said, "get out of my way you little black bitch, you little paki bitch, go back home where you came from." i was absolutely horrified. i was staring at him. i was too afraid to wipe the spit off my face, even as it was mixing with my tears. i remember looking around, hoping that any minute now, a grown-up is going to come and make this guy stop. but instead, people kept hurrying past me and pretended not to see me. i was very confused because i was thinking, well, "my white people, come on! where are they? what's going on? how come they're not coming and rescuing me?" so, needless to say, i didn't buy the sweets. i just ran home as fast as i could.things were still ok, though, i thought. as time went on, the more successful i became, i eventually started also attracting harassment from brown people. some men in my parent's community felt that it was unacceptable and dishonorable for a woman to be involved in music and to be so present in the media. so very quickly, i was starting to become attacked at my own concerts. i remember one of the concerts, i was onstage, i lean into the audience and the last thing i see is a young brown face, and the next thing i know is some sort of chemical is thrown in my eyes and i remember i couldn't really see and my eyes were watering but i kept singing anyway. i was spit in the face in the streets of oslo, this time by brown men. they even tried to kidnap me at one point. the death threats were endless. i remember one older bearded guy stopped me in the street one time, and he said, "the reason i hate you so much is because you make our daughters think they can do whatever they want." a younger guy warned me to watch my back. he said music is un-islamic and the job of whores, and if you keep this up, you are going to be raped and your stomach will be cut out so that another whore like you will not be born.again, i was so confused. i couldn't understand what was going on. my brown people now starting to treat me like this — how come? instead of bridging the worlds, the two worlds, i felt like i was falling between my two worlds. i suppose, for me, spit was kryptonite.so by the time i was 17 years old, the death threats were endless, and the harassment was constant. it got so bad, at one point my mother sat me down and said, "look, we can no longer protect you, we can no longer keep you safe, so you're going to have to go." so i bought a one-way ticket to london, i packed my suitcase and i left. my biggest heartbreak at that point was that nobody said anything. i had a very public exit from norway. my brown people, my white people — nobody said anything. nobody said, "hold on, this is wrong. support this girl, protect this girl, because she is one of us." nobody said that. instead, i felt like — you know at the airport, on the baggage carousel you have these different suitcases going around and around, and there's always that one suitcase left at the end, the one that nobody wants, the one that nobody comes to claim. i felt like that. i'd never felt so alone. i'd never felt so lost.so, after coming to london, i did eventually resume my music career. different place, but unfortunately the same old story. i remember a message sent to me saying that i was going to be killed and that rivers of blood were going to flow and that i was going to be raped many times before i died. by this point, i have to say, i was actually getting used to messages like this, but what became different was that now they started threatening my family.so once again, i packed my suitcase, i left music and i moved to the us. i'd had enough. i didn't want to have anything to do with this anymore. and i was certainly not going to be killed for something that wasn't even my dream — it was my father's choice.so i kind of got lost. i kind of fell apart. but i decided that what i wanted to do is spend the next however many years of my life supporting young people and to try to be there in some small way, whatever way that i could. i started volunteering for various organizations that were working with young muslims inside of europe. and, to my surprise, what i found was so many of these young people were suffering and struggling. they were facing so many problems with their families and their communities who seemed to care more about their honor and their reputation than the happiness and the lives of their own kids. i started feeling like maybe i wasn't so alone, maybe i wasn't so weird. maybe there are more of my people out there.the thing is, what most people don't understand is that there are so many of us growing up in europe who are not free to be ourselves. we're not allowed to be who we are. we are not free to marry or to be in relationships with people that we choose. we can't even pick our own career. this is the norm in the muslim heartlands of europe. even in the freest societies in the world, we're not free. our lives, our dreams, our future does not belong to us, it belongs to our parents and their community. i found endless stories of young people who are lost to all of us, who are invisible to all of us but who are suffering, and they are suffering alone. kids we are losing to forced marriages, to honor-based violence and abuse.eventually, i realized after several years of working with these young people, that i will not be able to keep running. i can't spend the rest of my life being scared and hiding and that i'm actually going to have to do something. and i also realized that my silence, our silence, allows abuse like this to continue. so i decided that i wanted to put my childhood superpower to some use by trying to make people on the different sides of these issues understand what it's like to be a young person stuck between your family and your country.so i started making films, and i started telling these stories. and i also wanted people to understand the deadly consequences of us not taking these problems seriously.so the first film i made was about banaz. she was a 17-year-old kurdish girl in london. she was obedient, she did whatever her parents wanted. she tried to do everything right. she married some guy that her parents chose for her, even though he beat and raped her constantly. and when she tried to go to her family for help, they said, "well, you got to go back and be a better wife." because they didn't want a divorced daughter on their hands because, of course, that would bring dishonor on the family. she was beaten so badly her ears would bleed, and when she finally left and she found a young man that she chose and she fell in love with, the community and the family found out and she disappeared. she was found three months later. she'd been stuffed into a suitcase and buried underneath the house. she had been strangled, she had been beaten to death by three men, three cousins, on the orders of her father and uncle. the added tragedy of banaz's story is that she had gone to the police in england five times asking for help, telling them that she was going to be killed by her family. the police didn't believe her so they didn't do anything.and the problem with this is that not only are so many of our kids facing these problems within their families and within their families' communities, but they're also meeting misunderstandings and apathy in the countries that they grow up in. when their own families betray them, they look to the rest of us, and when we don't understand, we lose them.so while i was making this film, several people said to me, "well, deeyah, you know, this is just their culture, this is just what those people do to their kids and we can't really interfere." i can assure you being murdered is not my culture. you know? and surely people who look like me, young women who come from backgrounds like me, should be subject to the same rights, the same protections as anybody else in our country, why not?so, for my next film, i wanted to try and understand why some of our young muslim kids in europe are drawn to extremism and violence. but with that topic, i also recognized that i was going to have to face my worst fear: the brown men with beards. the same men, or similar men, to the ones that have hounded me for most of my life. men that i've been afraid of most of my life. men that i've also deeply disliked, for many, many years.so i spent the next two years interviewing convicted terrorists, jihadis and former extremists. what i already knew, what was very obvious already, was that religion, politics, europe's colonial baggage, also western foreign policy failures of recent years, were all a part of the picture. but what i was more interested in finding out was what are the human, what are the personal reasons why some of our young people are susceptible to groups like this. and what really surprised me was that i found wounded human beings. instead of the monsters that i was looking for, that i was hoping to find — quite frankly because it would have been very satisfying — i found broken people. just like banaz, i found that these young men were torn apart from trying to bridge the gaps between their families and the countries that they were born in. and what i also learned is that extremist groups, terrorist groups are taking advantage of these feelings of our young people and channeling that — cynically — channeling that toward violence. "come to us," they say. "reject both sides, your family and your country because they reject you. for your family, their honor is more important than you and for your country, a real norwegian, brit or a french person will always be white and never you." they're also promising our young people the things that they crave: significance, heroism, a sense of belonging and purpose, a community that loves and accepts them. they make the powerless feel powerful. the invisible and the silent are finally seen and heard. this is what they're doing for our young people. why are these groups doing this for our young people and not us?the thing is, i'm not trying to justify or excuse any of the violence. what i am trying to say is that we have to understand why some of our young people are attracted to this. i would like to also show you, actually — these are childhood photos of some of the guys in the film. what really struck me is that so many of them — i never would have thought this — but so many of them have absent or abusive fathers. and several of these young guys ended up finding caring and compassionate father figures within these extremist groups. i also found men brutalized by racist violence, but who found a way to stop feeling like victims by becoming violent themselves. in fact, i found something, to my horror, that i recognized. i found the same feelings that i felt as a 17-year-old as i fled from norway. the same confusion, the same sorrow, the same feeling of being betrayed and not belonging to anyone. the same feeling of being lost and torn between cultures.having said that, i did not choose destruction, i chose to pick up a camera instead of a gun. and the reason i did that is because of my superpower. i could see that understanding is the answer, instead of violence. seeing human beings with all their virtues and all their flaws instead of continuing the caricatures: the us and them, the villains and victims. i'd also finally come to terms with the fact that my two cultures didn't have to be on a collision course but instead became a space where i found my own voice. i stopped feeling like i had to pick a side, but this took me many, many years. there are so many of our young people today who are struggling with these same issues, and they're struggling with this alone. and this leaves them open like wounds. and for some, the worldview of radical islam becomes the infection that festers in these open wounds.there's an african proverb that says, "if the young are not initiated into the village, they will burn it down just to feel its warmth." i would like to ask — to muslim parents and muslim communities, will you love and care for your children without forcing them to meet your expectations? can you choose them instead of your honor? can you understand why they're so angry and alienated when you put your honor before their happiness? can you try to be a friend to your child so that they can trust you and want to share with you their experiences, rather than having to seek it somewhere else?and to our young people tempted by extremism, can you acknowledge that your rage is fueled by pain? will you find the strength to resist those cynical old men who want to use your blood for their own profits? can you find a way to live? can you see that the sweetest revenge is for you to live a happy, full and free life? a life defined by you and nobody else. why do you want to become just another dead muslim kid? and for the rest of us, when will we start listening to our young people? how can we support them in redirecting their pain into something more constructive? they think we don't like them. they think we don't care what happens to them. they think we don't accept them. can we find a way to make them feel differently? what will it take for us to see them and notice them before they become either the victims or the perpetrators of violence? can we make ourselves care about them and consider them to be our own? and not just be outraged when the victims of violence look like ourselves? can we find a way to reject hatred and heal the divisions between us? the thing is we cannot afford to give up on each other or on our kids, even if they've given up on us.we are all in this together. and in the long term, revenge and violence will not work against extremists. terrorists want us to huddle in our houses in fear, closing our doors and our hearts. they want us to tear open more wounds in our societies so that they can use them to spread their infection more widely. they want us to become like them: intolerant, hateful and cruel.the day after the paris attacks, a friend of mine sent this photo of her daughter. this is a white girl and an arab girl. they're best friends. this image is the kryptonite for extremists. these two little girls with their superpowers are showing the way forward towards a society that we need to build together, a society that includes and supports, rather than rejects our kids.thank you for listening. <title = "A young scientist's quest for clean water">
<tags = "['bacteria', 'big problems', 'chemistry', 'children', 'design', 'global issues', 'health', 'humanity', 'illness', 'india', 'innovation', 'invention', 'motivation', 'product design', 'public health', 'science', 'society', 'solar energy', 'technology', 'water']">
<occupation = "Inventor, student scientist">
every summer, my family and i travel across the world, 3,000 miles away to the culturally diverse country of india. now, india is a country infamous for its scorching heat and humidity. for me, the only relief from this heat is to drink plenty of water. now, while in india, my parents always remind me to only drink boiled or bottled water, because unlike here in america, where i can just turn on a tap and easily get clean, potable water, in india, the water is often contaminated. so my parents have to make sure that the water we drink is safe.however, i soon realized that not everyone is fortunate enough to enjoy the clean water we did. outside my grandparents' house in the busy streets of india, i saw people standing in long lines under the hot sun filling buckets with water from a tap. i even saw children, who looked the same age as me, filling up these clear plastic bottles with dirty water from streams on the roadside. watching these kids forced to drink water that i felt was too dirty to touch changed my perspective on the world. this unacceptable social injustice compelled me to want to find a solution to our world's clean water problem. i wanted to know why these kids lacked water, a substance that is essential for life. and i learned that we are facing a global water crisis.now, this may seem surprising, as 75 percent of our planet is covered in water, but only 2.5 percent of that is freshwater, and less than one percent of earth's freshwater supply is available for human consumption. with rising populations, industrial development and economic growth, our demand for clean water is increasing, yet our freshwater resources are rapidly depleting. according to the world health organization, 660 million people in our world lack access to a clean water source. lack of access to clean water is a leading cause of death in children under the age of five in developing countries, and unicef estimates that 3,000 children die every day from a water-related disease.so after returning home one summer in eighth grade, i decided that i wanted to combine my passion for solving the global water crisis with my interest in science. so i decided that the best thing to do would be to convert my garage into a laboratory. actually, at first i converted my kitchen into a laboratory, but my parents didn't really approve and kicked me out.i also read a lot of journal papers on water-related research, and i learned that currently in developing countries, something called solar disinfection, or sodis, is used to purify water. in sodis, clear plastic bottles are filled with contaminated water and then exposed to sunlight for six to eight hours. the uv radiation from the sun destroys the dna of these harmful pathogens and decontaminates the water. now, while sodis is really easy to use and energy-efficient, as it only uses solar energy, it's really slow, as it can take up to two days when it's cloudy. so in order to make the sodis process faster, this new method called photocatalysis has recently been used.so what exactly is this photocatalysis? let's break it down: "photo" means from the sun, and a catalyst is something that speeds up a reaction. so what photocatalysis is doing is it's just speeding up this solar disinfection process. when sunlight comes in and strikes a photocatalyst, like tio2, or titanium dioxide, it creates these really reactive oxygen species, like superoxides, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals. these reactive oxygen species are able to remove bacteria and organics and a whole lot of contaminants from drinking water.but unfortunately, there are several disadvantages to the way photocatalytic sodis is currently deployed. see, what they do is they take the clear plastic bottles and they coat the inside with this photocatalytic coating. but photocatalysts like titanium dioxide are actually commonly used in sunscreens to block uv radiation. so when they're coated on the inside of these bottles, they're actually blocking some of the uv radiation and diminishing the efficiency of the process. also, these photocatalytic coatings are not tightly bound to the plastic bottle, which means they wash off, and people end up drinking the catalyst. while tio2 is safe and inert, it's really inefficient if you keep drinking the catalyst, because then you have to continue to replenish it, even after a few uses.so my goal was to overcome the disadvantages of these current treatment methods and create a safe, sustainable, cost-effective and eco-friendly method of purifying water. what started off as an eighth grade science fair project is now my photocatalytic composite for water purification. the composite combines titanium dioxide with cement. the cement-like composite can be formed into several different shapes, which results in an extremely versatile range of deployment methods. for example, you could create a rod that can easily be placed inside water bottles for individual use or you could create a porous filter that can filter water for families. you can even coat the inside of an existing water tank to purify larger amounts of water for communities over a longer period of time.now, over the course of this, my journey hasn't really been easy. you know, i didn't have access to a sophisticated laboratory. i was 14 years old when i started, but i didn't let my age deter me in my interest in pursuing scientific research and wanting to solve the global water crisis.see, water isn't just the universal solvent. water is a universal human right. and for that reason, i'm continuing to work on this science fair project from 2012 to bring it from the laboratory into the real world. and this summer, i founded catalyst for world water, a social enterprise aimed at catalyzing solutions to the global water crisis. alone, a single drop of water can't do much, but when many drops come together, they can sustain life on our planet. just as water drops come together to form oceans, i believe that we all must come together when tackling this global problem.thank you. thank you. <title = "Help discover ancient ruins -- before it's too late">
<tags = "['Egypt', 'Middle East', 'South America', 'TED Prize', 'adventure', 'algorithm', 'ancient world', 'archaeology', 'big problems', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'global issues', 'human origins', 'humanity', 'potential', 'science', 'society', 'technology', 'terrorism', 'violence', 'war', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Satellite archaeologist + TED Prize winner">
as an archaeologist, i'm most often asked what my favorite discovery is. the answer's easy: my husband, greg. we met in egypt on my first dig. it was my first lesson in finding unexpected, wonderful things. this began an incredible archaeological partnership. years later, i proposed to him in front of our favorite pair statue of the prince and princess rahotep and nofret, in the cairo museum, dating to 4,600 years ago.i thought if i was going to ask greg to spend the rest of this life with me, then i should ask him in front of two people who had pledged to be together for eternity. these symbols endure because when we look at them, we're looking at mirrors. they are powerful reminders that our common humanity has not changed.the thrill of archaeological discovery is as powerful as love, because ancient history is the most seductive mistress imaginable. many archaeologists have devoted their lives to unraveling the mysteries of the past under hot suns and arctic winds and in dense rainforests. many seek. some discover. all worship at the temple of possibility that one discovery might change history.on my first day in egypt, i worked at a site in the northeast egyptian delta called mendes, dating to 4,200 years ago, in a cemetery. that's a picture of me — i'm just in my bliss. on the dig, surrounded by emerald green rice paddies, i discovered an intact pot. flipping it over, i discovered a human thumbprint left by whoever made the vessel. for a moment, time stood still. i didn't know where i was. it was because at that moment i realized, when we dig, we're digging for people, not things.never are we so present as when we are in the midst of the great past. i can't tell you how many times i've stood in front of the pyramids of giza, and they leave me speechless. i feel like the luckiest person in the world. they're a monument to our human brilliance and everything that is possible. many cannot process their brilliance as human — they think aliens built them. but this is ridiculous. all you need to do is get up close and personal, and see the hidden hand of man in the chisel marks left by the tools that built them. the great pyramid of giza was built one stone at a time with 2.3 million blocks, with incredible bureaucratic efficiency. it is not the pyramids that stand the test of time; it is human ingenuity. that is our shared human brilliance. history may be cyclical, but we are singular.i love what i do, because i learn that we haven't changed. i get to read about mother-in-law jokes from mesopotamia from 3,500 years ago. i get to hear about neighbors cursing each other from 4,600 years ago in egypt. and my absolute favorite, from 3,300 years ago in luxor: an inscription that describes schoolboys who cut class to go drinking. kids these days. i get to see the most incredible architecture, see stunning sculptures — i mean, this is basically a selfie in stone — and see that we've always rocked serious bling. and also, we've been posting on walls and obsessing about cats — for thousands of years. archaeologists are the cultural memory preservers and the spokespeople for the billions of people and the thousands of cultures that came before us.good science, imagination and a leap of faith are the trifecta we use to raise the dead. in the last year, archaeologists have made incredible discoveries, including: new human ancestors from south africa; tools from 3.3 million years ago — these are the oldest tools ever discovered — in kenya. and this, from a series of medical implements found from blackbeard's ship from 1718. what you're looking at is a medical tool used to treat syphilis. ouch! for each of these, there are thousands of other incredibly important discoveries made by my colleagues, that do not make headlines. however, i believe that the most important thing we do as archaeologists is acknowledge that past people existed and lived lives worth learning about. can you even imagine what the world would be like today if we acknowledged all human beings in this way?so, on a dig, we have a challenge: it often looks like this. you can't see anything. where are we going to start digging? this is from a site south of cairo. let's have a look from space. again, you can't really see much. what you're looking at is a worldview-3 satellite image, which has a .3 meter resolution. that's 10 inches. this means that you can zoom in from 400 miles in space and see your tablets. how do i know about this? it's because i'm a space archaeologist. let me repeat that. i am a space archaeologist. this means — thank you.this means i use satellite images and process them using algorithms, and look at subtle differences in the light spectrum that indicate buried things under the ground that i get to go excavate and survey. by the way — nasa has a space archaeology program, so it's a real job. so, let's have a look again. we're back at the site just south of cairo. you can't see anything. keep your eye on the red rectangle. when we process the image using algorithms — think like a space-based cat scan — this is what you see. this rectilinear form is an ancient tomb that is previously unknown and unexcavated, and you all are the first people to see it in thousands of years. i believe we have barely scratched the surface in terms of what's left to discover. in the egyptian delta alone, we've excavated less than one-1000th of one percent of the total volume of egyptian sites. when you add to that the thousands of other sites my team and i have discovered, what we thought we knew pales in comparison to what we have left to discover. when you look at the incredible work that my colleagues are doing all around the world and what they're finding, i believe that there are millions of undiscovered archaeological sites left to find. discovering them will do nothing less than unlock the full potential of our existence.but we have a challenge. over the last year, we've seen horrible headlines of incredible destruction going on to archaeological sites, and massive looting by people like isil. isil has destroyed temples at palmyra. who blows up a temple? they've destroyed the tomb of jonah. and we've seen looting at sites so rampant, it looks like craters of the moon. knowing isil's desire to destroy modern human lives, it's a natural extension for them to destroy cultural identity as well. countless invading armies have done the same throughout history.we know that isil is profiting from the looting of sites, but we don't know the scale. this means that any object purchased on the market today from the middle east could potentially be funding terrorism. when a site is looted, it's as if a puzzle already missing 90 percent of it pieces has had the rest obscured beyond recognition. this is ancient identity theft writ large. we know that there are two kinds of looting going on: looting by criminal elements like isil, and then more local looting by those that are desperate for money. we would all do the same to feed our families; i don't blame the local looters. i blame the middlemen, the unethical traffickers and an international art market that exploits often ambiguous or even completely nonexistent laws.we know looting is going on on a global scale and it's increasing, but presently we don't have any tools to stop it. this is beginning to change. my team and i have just completed a study looking at looting in egypt. we looked at open-source data and mapped the entirety of looting across egypt from 2002 to 2013. we found evidence of looting and site destruction at 267 sites, and mapped over 200,000 looting pits. it's astonishing. and putting that data together — you can see the looting pits marked here. at one site, the looting got bad from 2009, 2011, 2012 — hundreds and hundreds of pits.putting all the data together, what we found is that, contrary to popular opinion, looting did not start to get worse in egypt in 2011 after the arab spring, but in 2009, after the global recession. thus, we've shown with big data that looting is fundamentally an economic issue. if we do nothing to stop the problem, all of egypt's sites will be affected by looting by 2040. thus, we are at a tipping point. we are the generation with all the tools and all the technologies to stop looting, but we're not working fast enough.sometimes an archaeological site can surprise you with its resilience. i am just back from the field, where i co-led a joint mission with egypt's ministry of antiquities at a site called lisht. this site dates to the middle kingdom of egypt between 2,000 and 1,750 bc. the middle kingdom was ancient egypt's renaissance period. after a time of intense internal strife and environmental challenges, egypt rebounded with an incredible resurgence of art, architecture and literature. it's a favorite period of time to study in egypt, because it teaches us so much about how we can survive and thrive after great disasters.now at this site, we had already mapped countless looting pits. lisht is a royal site; there would have been thousands of people buried there who lived and worked at the court of pharaoh. you can see this before and after; you see dozens of looting pits. north lisht. this is in south lisht, before and after. when we first visited the site, we could see the tombs of many high-ranking officials that had been looted. let me put into perspective for you what was taken. imagine a two meter by two meter area full of coffins, jewelry and incredible statuary. multiply that times over a thousand. that's what was taken.so, when we started work, my egyptian co-director, mohamed youssef, approached me and said, "we must work at this one particular tomb. it's been attacked by looters. if we don't do anything, they'll be back." of course i agreed, but i didn't think we'd find anything. i thought the looters had stolen everything. what we started to find were the most incredible reliefs. look at this painting — it's just stunning. we started finding engraved inscriptions. and even the titles of the tomb owner — he had titles like, "overseer of the army," "overseer of the treasury." i began to have hope. maybe, just maybe we would find his name. for the ancient egyptians, having their name last for eternity was their goal. and then one day, this appeared. this is the name of the tomb owner: intef. you can see it written out here, in hieroglyphs. working together with my egyptian team, we had restored someone's name from 3,900 years ago. working together with my egyptian colleagues, we celebrated this moment of shared discovery. what we were doing together was right and true. we found this incredible false door, mostly intact. on it we read about intef and his inscriptions. you can actually even see him seated here. what i realized is that everything i had assumed about looted sites had been proven wrong.every day on site we worked together with 70 egyptians as colleagues and friends. in the face of so much hatred and ignorance against those in the middle east, every moment on site felt like a protest for peace. when you work with those that don't look like you, or think like you, or speak like you, your shared mission of archaeological discovery erases all superficial differences. what i learned this season is that archaeology isn't about what you find. it's about what you can prove possible.sometimes when you travel, you end up finding long-lost family — not those with whom you share genes, but a shared entry in the book of life. this is omer farrouk, my brother. omer's a gufti from a village just north of luxor, called guft. guftis are part of a celebrated tradition in egyptology. they help with digging and work crew organization. omer is my coo and cfo. i simply couldn't do work without him. one day many years ago, when i was a young graduate student and omer was a young gufti who couldn't speak much english, we learned, completely randomly, that we were born in the same year, the same month and the same day, six hours apart. twins. separated by an ocean, but forever connected for ancient egypt is our mother. i knew then we'd always work together — not in my brain, but in the part of your soul that knows not everything can be explained.(arabic) omer by brother, i will always love you.(english) omer my brother, i will always love you.so, just before my first dig in egypt, my mentor, the very famous egyptologist professor william kelly simpson, called me into his office. he handed me a check for $2,000, and said, "this is to cover your expenses. have a glorious adventure this summer. someday you will do this for someone else." thus, my ted prize wish is partial payback, plus interest — for a great human being's generosity and kindness.so, my wish. i wish for us to discover the millions of unknown archaeological sites around the world. by creating a 21st-century army of global explorers, we'll find and protect the world's hidden heritage, which contains clues to humankind's collective resilience and creativity. thank you. so how are we going to do this? we are going to build with the ted prize money an online, crowdsource, citizen science platform to allow anyone in the world to engage with discovering archaeological sites. there are only a couple hundred of us space archaeologists around the world. it is my dream to engage the world with helping to find sites and protect them. what you'll do is sign in, create a username — note that this particular username is already taken. you'll take a tutorial and you'll start work. i want to note at the outset that in no way will be sharing gps data or mapping data for sites. we want to treat them like human patient data, and not reveal their locations. you'll then be dealt a card from a deck — 20 x 20 meters or 30 x 30 meters, and you'll be looking for features. my team and i will have batch-processed large amounts of satellite data using algorithms in order for you to find things, so you'll be doing really good science.you'll then be starting to look. what do you see? do you see a temple? do you see a tomb? do you see a pyramid? do you see any potential site damage or site looting? you'll then begin to mark what's there. and off to the side are always going to be rich examples of exactly what you're seeing, to help guide you. all the data that you help us collect will be shared with vetted authorities, and will help create a new global alarm system to help protect sites. but it's not just going to stop there. all the archaeologists with whom we share your discoveries will take you with them as they begin to excavate them, by using periscope, google plus and social media.a hundred years ago, archaeology was for the rich. fifty years ago, it was for men. now it's primarily for academics. our goal is to democratize the process of archaeological discovery, and allow anyone to participate. ninety-four years ago, howard carter discovered the tomb of king tut. who is the next howard carter? it might be you.by creating this platform, we will find the millions of places occupied by the billions of people that came before us. if we want to answer the big questions about who we are and where we've come from, the answers to those questions do not lie in pyramids or palaces, but in the cities and villages of those that came before us. if we want to learn about the past, it's time we inverted the pyramids. acknowledging that the past is worth saving means so much more. it means that we're worth saving, too. and the greatest story ever told is the story of our shared human journey. but the only way we're going to be able to write it is if we do it together. come with me.thank you. <title = "Why you should love statistics">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'algorithm', 'animation', 'creativity', 'data', 'education', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'math', 'society', 'statistics', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Data visualisation editor">
back in 2003, the uk government carried out a survey. and it was a survey that measured levels of numeracy in the population. and they were shocked to find out that for every 100 working age adults in the country, 47 of them lacked level 1 numeracy skills. now, level 1 numeracy skills — that's low-end gcse score. it's the ability to deal with fractions, percentages and decimals. so this figure prompted a lot of hand-wringing in whitehall. policies were changed, investments were made, and then they ran the survey again in 2011. so can you guess what happened to this number? it went up to 49. and in fact, when i reported this figure in the ft, one of our readers joked and said, "this figure is only shocking to 51 percent of the population." but i preferred, actually, the reaction of a schoolchild when i presented at a school this information, who raised their hand and said, "how do we know that the person who made that number isn't one of the 49 percent either?" so clearly, there's a numeracy issue, because these are important skills for life, and a lot of the changes that we want to introduce in this century involve us becoming more comfortable with numbers.now, it's not just an english problem. oecd this year released some figures looking at numeracy in young people, and leading the way, the usa — nearly 40 percent of young people in the us have low numeracy. now, england is there too, but there are seven oecd countries with figures above 20 percent. that is a problem, because it doesn't have to be that way. if you look at the far end of this graph, you can see the netherlands and korea are in single figures. so there's definitely a numeracy problem that we want to address.now, as useful as studies like these are, i think we risk herding people inadvertently into one of two categories; that there are two kinds of people: those people that are comfortable with numbers, that can do numbers, and the people who can't. and what i'm trying to talk about here today is to say that i believe that is a false dichotomy. it's not an immutable pairing. i think you don't have to have tremendously high levels of numeracy to be inspired by numbers, and that should be the starting point to the journey ahead.and one of the ways in which we can begin that journey, for me, is looking at statistics. now, i am the first to acknowledge that statistics has got somewhat of an image problem. it's the part of mathematics that even mathematicians don't particularly like, because whereas the rest of maths is all about precision and certainty, statistics is almost the reverse of that. but actually, i was a late convert to the world of statistics myself. if you'd asked my undergraduate professors what two subjects would i be least likely to excel in after university, they'd have told you statistics and computer programming, and yet here i am, about to show you some statistical graphics that i programmed.so what inspired that change in me? what made me think that statistics was actually an interesting thing? it's really because statistics are about us. if you look at the etymology of the word statistics, it's the science of dealing with data about the state or the community that we live in. so statistics are about us as a group, not us as individuals. and i think as social animals, we share this fascination about how we as individuals relate to our groups, to our peers. and statistics in this way are at their most powerful when they surprise us.and there's been some really wonderful surveys carried out recently by ipsos mori in the last few years. they did a survey of over 1,000 adults in the uk, and said, for every 100 people in england and wales, how many of them are muslim? now the average answer from this survey, which was supposed to be representative of the total population, was 24. that's what people thought. british people think 24 out of every 100 people in the country are muslim. now, official figures reveal that figure to be about five. so there's this big variation between what we think, our perception, and the reality as given by statistics. and i think that's interesting. what could possibly be causing that misperception?and i was so thrilled with this study, i started to take questions out in presentations. i was referring to it. now, i did a presentation at st. paul's school for girls in hammersmith, and i had an audience rather like this, except it was comprised entirely of sixth-form girls. and i said, "girls, how many teenage girls do you think the british public think get pregnant every year?" and the girls were apoplectic when i said the british public think that 15 out of every 100 teenage girls get pregnant in the year. and they had every right to be angry, because in fact, i'd have to have closer to 200 dots before i could color one in, in terms of what the official figures tell us.and rather like numeracy, this is not just an english problem. ipsos mori expanded the survey in recent years to go across the world. and so, they asked saudi arabians, for every 100 adults in your country, how many of them are overweight or obese? and the average answer from the saudis was just over a quarter. that's what they thought. just over a quarter of adults are overweight or obese. the official figures show, actually, it's nearer to three-quarters. so again, a big variation.and i love this one: they asked in japan, they asked the japanese, for every 100 japanese people, how many of them live in rural areas? the average was about a 50-50 split, just over halfway. they thought 56 out of every 100 japanese people lived in rural areas. the official figure is seven.so extraordinary variations, and surprising to some, but not surprising to people who have read the work of daniel kahneman, for example, the nobel-winning economist. he and his colleague, amos tversky, spent years researching this disjoint between what people perceive and the reality, the fact that people are actually pretty poor intuitive statisticians. and there are many reasons for this. individual experiences, certainly, can influence our perceptions, but so, too, can things like the media reporting things by exception, rather than what's normal. kahneman had a nice way of referring to that. he said, "we can be blind to the obvious" — so we've got the numbers wrong — "but we can be blind to our blindness about it." and that has enormous repercussions for decision making.so at the statistics office while this was all going on, i thought this was really interesting. i said, this is clearly a global problem, but maybe geography is the issue here. these were questions that were all about, how well do you know your country? so in this case, it's how well do you know 64 million people? not very well, it turns out. i can't do that. so i had an idea, which was to think about this same sort of approach but to think about it in a very local sense. is this a local? if we reframe the questions and say, how well do you know your local area, would your answers be any more accurate?so i devised a quiz: how well do you know your area? it's a simple web app. you put in a post code and then it will ask you questions based on census data for your local area. and i was very conscious in designing this. i wanted to make it open to the widest possible range of people, not just the 49 percent who can get the numbers. i wanted everyone to engage with it. so for the design of the quiz, i was inspired by the isotypes of otto neurath from the 1920s and '30s. now, these are methods for representing numbers using repeating icons. and the numbers are there, but they sit in the background. so it's a great way of representing quantity without resorting to using terms like "percentage," "fractions" and "ratios."so here's the quiz. the layout of the quiz is, you have your repeating icons on the left-hand side there, and a map showing you the area we're asking you questions about on the right-hand side. there are seven questions. each question, there's a possible answer between zero and a hundred, and at the end of the quiz, you get an overall score between zero and a hundred. and so because this is tedxexeter, i thought we would have a quick look at the quiz for the first few questions of exeter. and so the first question is: for every 100 people, how many are aged under 16? now, i don't know exeter very well at all, so i had a guess at this, but it gives you an idea of how this quiz works. you drag the slider to highlight your icons, and then just click "submit" to answer, and we animate away the difference between your answer and reality. and it turns out, i was a pretty terrible guess: five.how about the next question? this is asking about what the average age is, so the age at which half the population are younger and half the population are older. and i thought 35 — that sounds middle-aged to me. actually, in exeter, it's incredibly young, and i had underestimated the impact of the university in this area. the questions get harder as you go through. so this one's now asking about homeownership: for every 100 households, how many are owned with a mortgage or loan? and i hedged my bets here, because i didn't want to be more than 50 out on the answer. and actually, these get harder, these questions, because when you're in an area, when you're in a community, things like age — there are clues to whether a population is old or young. just by looking around the area, you can see it. something like homeownership is much more difficult to see, so we revert to our own heuristics, our own biases about how many people we think own their own homes.now the truth is, when we published this quiz, the census data that it's based on was already a few years old. we've had online applications that allow you to put in a post code and get statistics back for years. so in some senses, this was all a little bit old and not necessarily new. but i was interested to see what reaction we might get by gamifying the data in the way that we have, by using animation and playing on the fact that people have their own preconceptions.it turns out, the reaction was, um ... was more than i could have hoped for. it was a long-held ambition of mine to bring down a statistics website due to public demand. this url contains the words "statistics," "gov" and "uk," which are three of people's least favorite words in a url. and the amazing thing about this was that the website came down at quarter to 10 at night, because people were actually engaging with this data of their own free will, using their own personal time. i was very interested to see that we got something like a quarter of a million people playing the quiz within the space of 48 hours of launching it. and it sparked an enormous discussion online, on social media, which was largely dominated by people having fun with their misconceptions, which is something that i couldn't have hoped for any better, in some respects. i also liked the fact that people started sending it to politicians. how well do you know the area you claim to represent? and then just to finish, going back to the two kinds of people, i thought it would be really interesting to see how people who are good with numbers would do on this quiz. the national statistician of england and wales, john pullinger, you would expect he would be pretty good. he got 44 for his own area. jeremy paxman — admittedly, after a glass of wine — 36. even worse. it just shows you that the numbers can inspire us all. they can surprise us all.so very often, we talk about statistics as being the science of uncertainty. my parting thought for today is: actually, statistics is the science of us. and that's why we should be fascinated by numbers.thank you very much. <title = "How to get better at the things you care about">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'education', 'goal-setting', 'intelligence', 'mindfulness', 'motivation', 'performance', 'personal growth', 'self', 'teaching', 'work-life balance']">
<occupation = "Learning expert">
most of us go through life trying to do our best at whatever we do, whether it's our job, family, school or anything else. i feel that way. i try my best. but some time ago, i came to a realization that i wasn't getting much better at the things i cared most about, whether it was being a husband or a friend or a professional or teammate, and i wasn't improving much at those things even though i was spending a lot of time working hard at them. i've since realized from conversations i've had and from research that this stagnation, despite hard work, turns out to be pretty common.so i'd like to share with you some insights into why that is and what we can all do about it. what i've learned is that the most effective people and teams in any domain do something we can all emulate. they go through life deliberately alternating between two zones: the learning zone and the performance zone.the learning zone is when our goal is to improve. then we do activities designed for improvement, concentrating on what we haven't mastered yet, which means we have to expect to make mistakes, knowing that we will learn from them. that is very different from what we do when we're in our performance zone, which is when our goal is to do something as best as we can, to execute. then we concentrate on what we have already mastered and we try to minimize mistakes.both of these zones should be part of our lives, but being clear about when we want to be in each of them, with what goal, focus and expectations, helps us better perform and better improve. the performance zone maximizes our immediate performance, while the learning zone maximizes our growth and our future performance. the reason many of us don't improve much despite our hard work is that we tend to spend almost all of our time in the performance zone. this hinders our growth, and ironically, over the long term, also our performance.so what does the learning zone look like? take demosthenes, a political leader and the greatest orator and lawyer in ancient greece. to become great, he didn't spend all his time just being an orator or a lawyer, which would be his performance zone. but instead, he did activities designed for improvement. of course, he studied a lot. he studied law and philosophy with guidance from mentors, but he also realized that being a lawyer involved persuading other people, so he also studied great speeches and acting. to get rid of an odd habit he had of involuntarily lifting his shoulder, he practiced his speeches in front of a mirror, and he suspended a sword from the ceiling so that if he raised his shoulder, it would hurt. to speak more clearly despite a lisp, he went through his speeches with stones in his mouth. he built an underground room where he could practice without interruptions and not disturb other people. and since courts at the time were very noisy, he also practiced by the ocean, projecting his voice above the roar of the waves.his activities in the learning zone were very different from his activities in court, his performance zone. in the learning zone, he did what dr. anders ericsson calls deliberate practice. this involves breaking down abilities into component skills, being clear about what subskill we're working to improve, like keeping our shoulders down, giving full concentration to a high level of challenge outside our comfort zone, just beyond what we can currently do, using frequent feedback with repetition and adjustments, and ideally engaging the guidance of a skilled coach, because activities designed for improvement are domain-specific, and great teachers and coaches know what those activities are and can also give us expert feedback. it is this type of practice in the learning zone which leads to substantial improvement, not just time on task performing. for example, research shows that after the first couple of years working in a profession, performance usually plateaus. this has been shown to be true in teaching, general medicine, nursing and other fields, and it happens because once we think we have become good enough, adequate, then we stop spending time in the learning zone. we focus all our time on just doing our job, performing, which turns out not to be a great way to improve. but the people who continue to spend time in the learning zone do continue to always improve. the best salespeople at least once a week do activities with the goal of improvement. they read to extend their knowledge, consult with colleagues or domain experts, try out new strategies, solicit feedback and reflect. the best chess players spend a lot of time not playing games of chess, which would be their performance zone, but trying to predict the moves grand masters made and analyzing them. each of us has probably spent many, many, many hours typing on a computer without getting faster, but if we spent 10 to 20 minutes each day fully concentrating on typing 10 to 20 percent faster than our current reliable speed, we would get faster, especially if we also identified what mistakes we're making and practiced typing those words. that's deliberate practice.in what other parts of our lives, perhaps that we care more about, are we working hard but not improving much because we're always in the performance zone? now, this is not to say that the performance zone has no value. it very much does. when i needed a knee surgery, i didn't tell the surgeon, "poke around in there and focus on what you don't know." "we'll learn from your mistakes!" i looked for a surgeon who i felt would do a good job, and i wanted her to do a good job. being in the performance zone allows us to get things done as best as we can. it can also be motivating, and it provides us with information to identify what to focus on next when we go back to the learning zone. so the way to high performance is to alternate between the learning zone and the performance zone, purposefully building our skills in the learning zone, then applying those skills in the performance zone.when beyoncé is on tour, during the concert, she's in her performance zone, but every night when she gets back to the hotel room, she goes right back into her learning zone. she watches a video of the show that just ended. she identifies opportunities for improvement, for herself, her dancers and her camera staff. and the next morning, everyone receives pages of notes with what to adjust, which they then work on during the day before the next performance. it's a spiral to ever-increasing capabilities, but we need to know when we seek to learn, and when we seek to perform, and while we want to spend time doing both, the more time we spend in the learning zone, the more we'll improve.so how can we spend more time in the learning zone? first, we must believe and understand that we can improve, what we call a growth mindset. second, we must want to improve at that particular skill. there has to be a purpose we care about, because it takes time and effort. third, we must have an idea about how to improve, what we can do to improve, not how i used to practice the guitar as a teenager, performing songs over and over again, but doing deliberate practice. and fourth, we must be in a low-stakes situation, because if mistakes are to be expected, then the consequence of making them must not be catastrophic, or even very significant. a tightrope walker doesn't practice new tricks without a net underneath, and an athlete wouldn't set out to first try a new move during a championship match.one reason that in our lives we spend so much time in the performance zone is that our environments often are, unnecessarily, high stakes. we create social risks for one another, even in schools which are supposed to be all about learning, and i'm not talking about standardized tests. i mean that every minute of every day, many students in elementary schools through colleges feel that if they make a mistake, others will think less of them. no wonder they're always stressed out and not taking the risks necessary for learning. but they learn that mistakes are undesirable inadvertently when teachers or parents are eager to hear just correct answers and reject mistakes rather than welcome and examine them to learn from them, or when we look for narrow responses rather than encourage more exploratory thinking that we can all learn from. when all homework or student work has a number or a letter on it, and counts towards a final grade, rather than being used for practice, mistakes, feedback and revision, we send the message that school is a performance zone.the same is true in our workplaces. in the companies i consult with, i often see flawless execution cultures which leaders foster to encourage great work. but that leads employees to stay within what they know and not try new things, so companies struggle to innovate and improve, and they fall behind.we can create more spaces for growth by starting conversations with one another about when we want to be in each zone. what do we want to get better at and how? and when do we want to execute and minimize mistakes? that way, we gain clarity about what success is, when, and how to best support one another.but what if we find ourselves in a chronic high-stakes setting and we feel we can't start those conversations yet? then here are three things that we can still do as individuals. first, we can create low-stakes islands in an otherwise high-stakes sea. these are spaces where mistakes have little consequence. for example, we might find a mentor or a trusted colleague with whom we can exchange ideas or have vulnerable conversations or even role-play. or we can ask for feedback-oriented meetings as projects progress. or we can set aside time to read or watch videos or take online courses. those are just some examples. second, we can execute and perform as we're expected, but then reflect on what we could do better next time, like beyoncé does, and we can observe and emulate experts. the observation, reflection and adjustment is a learning zone. and finally, we can lead and lower the stakes for others by sharing what we want to get better at, by asking questions about what we don't know, by soliciting feedback and by sharing our mistakes and what we've learned from them, so that others can feel safe to do the same.real confidence is about modeling ongoing learning. what if, instead of spending our lives doing, doing, doing, performing, performing, performing, we spent more time exploring, asking, listening, experimenting, reflecting, striving and becoming? what if we each always had something we were working to improve? what if we created more low-stakes islands and waters? and what if we got clear, within ourselves and with our teammates, about when we seek to learn and when we seek to perform, so that our efforts can become more consequential, our improvement never-ending and our best even better?thank you.<title = "My son was a Columbine shooter. This is my story">
<tags = "['Guns', 'TEDMED', 'United States', 'activism', 'big problems', 'brain', 'death', 'humanity', 'mental health', 'mind', 'pain', 'parenting', 'personality', 'social change', 'society', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Activist">
the last time i heard my son's voice was when he walked out the front door on his way to school. he called out one word in the darkness: "bye."it was april 20, 1999. later that morning, at columbine high school, my son dylan and his friend eric killed 12 students and a teacher and wounded more than 20 others before taking their own lives. thirteen innocent people were killed, leaving their loved ones in a state of grief and trauma. others sustained injuries, some resulting in disfigurement and permanent disability. but the enormity of the tragedy can't be measured only by the number of deaths and injuries that took place. there's no way to quantify the psychological damage of those who were in the school, or who took part in rescue or cleanup efforts. there's no way to assess the magnitude of a tragedy like columbine, especially when it can be a blueprint for other shooters who go on to commit atrocities of their own. columbine was a tidal wave, and when the crash ended, it would take years for the community and for society to comprehend its impact.it has taken me years to try to accept my son's legacy. the cruel behavior that defined the end of his life showed me that he was a completely different person from the one i knew. afterwards people asked, "how could you not know? what kind of a mother were you?" i still ask myself those same questions.before the shootings, i thought of myself as a good mom. helping my children become caring, healthy, responsible adults was the most important role of my life. but the tragedy convinced me that i failed as a parent, and it's partially this sense of failure that brings me here today. aside from his father, i was the one person who knew and loved dylan the most. if anyone could have known what was happening, it should have been me, right? but i didn't know.today, i'm here to share the experience of what it's like to be the mother of someone who kills and hurts. for years after the tragedy, i combed through memories, trying to figure out exactly where i failed as a parent. but there are no simple answers. i can't give you any solutions. all i can do is share what i have learned.when i talk to people who didn't know me before the shootings, i have three challenges to meet. first, when i walk into a room like this, i never know if someone there has experienced loss because of what my son did. i feel a need to acknowledge the suffering caused by a member of my family who isn't here to do it for himself. so first, with all of my heart, i'm sorry if my son has caused you pain.the second challenge i have is that i must ask for understanding and even compassion when i talk about my son's death as a suicide. two years before he died, he wrote on a piece of paper in a notebook that he was cutting himself. he said that he was in agony and wanted to get a gun so he could end his life. i didn't know about any of this until months after his death. when i talk about his death as a suicide, i'm not trying to downplay the viciousness he showed at the end of his life. i'm trying to understand how his suicidal thinking led to murder. after a lot of reading and talking with experts, i have come to believe that his involvement in the shootings was rooted not in his desire to kill but in his desire to die.the third challenge i have when i talk about my son's murder-suicide is that i'm talking about mental health — excuse me — is that i'm talking about mental health, or brain health, as i prefer to call it, because it's more concrete. and in the same breath, i'm talking about violence. the last thing i want to do is to contribute to the misunderstanding that already exists around mental illness. only a very small percent of those who have a mental illness are violent toward other people, but of those who die by suicide, it's estimated that about 75 to maybe more than 90 percent have a diagnosable mental health condition of some kind. as you all know very well, our mental health care system is not equipped to help everyone, and not everyone with destructive thoughts fits the criteria for a specific diagnosis. many who have ongoing feelings of fear or anger or hopelessness are never assessed or treated. too often, they get our attention only if they reach a behavioral crisis. if estimates are correct that about one to two percent of all suicides involves the murder of another person, when suicide rates rise, as they are rising for some populations, the murder-suicide rates will rise as well.i wanted to understand what was going on in dylan's mind prior to his death, so i looked for answers from other survivors of suicide loss. i did research and volunteered to help with fund-raising events, and whenever i could, i talked with those who had survived their own suicidal crisis or attempt.one of the most helpful conversations i had was with a coworker who overheard me talking to someone else in my office cubicle. she heard me say that dylan could not have loved me if he could do something as horrible as he did. later, when she found me alone, she apologized for overhearing that conversation, but told me that i was wrong. she said that when she was a young, single mother with three small children, she became severely depressed and was hospitalized to keep her safe. at the time, she was certain that her children would be better off if she died, so she had made a plan to end her life. she assured me that a mother's love was the strongest bond on earth, and that she loved her children more than anything in the world, but because of her illness, she was sure that they would be better off without her.what she said and what i've learned from others is that we do not make the so-called decision or choice to die by suicide in the same way that we choose what car to drive or where to go on a saturday night. when someone is in an extremely suicidal state, they are in a stage four medical health emergency. their thinking is impaired and they've lost access to tools of self-governance. even though they can make a plan and act with logic, their sense of truth is distorted by a filter of pain through which they interpret their reality. some people can be very good at hiding this state, and they often have good reasons for doing that. many of us have suicidal thoughts at some point, but persistent, ongoing thoughts of suicide and devising a means to die are symptoms of pathology, and like many illnesses, the condition has to be recognized and treated before a life is lost.but my son's death was not purely a suicide. it involved mass murder. i wanted to know how his suicidal thinking became homicidal. but research is sparse and there are no simple answers. yes, he probably had ongoing depression. he had a personality that was perfectionistic and self-reliant, and that made him less likely to seek help from others. he had experienced triggering events at the school that left him feeling debased and humiliated and mad. and he had a complicated friendship with a boy who shared his feelings of rage and alienation, and who was seriously disturbed, controlling and homicidal. and on top of this period in his life of extreme vulnerability and fragility, dylan found access to guns even though we'd never owned any in our home. it was appallingly easy for a 17-year-old boy to buy guns, both legally and illegally, without my permission or knowledge. and somehow, 17 years and many school shootings later, it's still appallingly easy.what dylan did that day broke my heart, and as trauma so often does, it took a toll on my body and on my mind. two years after the shootings, i got breast cancer, and two years after that, i began to have mental health problems. on top of the constant, perpetual grief i was terrified that i would run into a family member of someone dylan had killed, or be accosted by the press or by an angry citizen. i was afraid to turn on the news, afraid to hear myself being called a terrible parent or a disgusting person.i started having panic attacks. the first bout started four years after the shootings, when i was getting ready for the depositions and would have to meet the victims' families face to face. the second round started six years after the shootings, when i was preparing to speak publicly about murder-suicide for the first time at a conference. both episodes lasted several weeks. the attacks happened everywhere: in the hardware store, in my office, or even while reading a book in bed. my mind would suddenly lock into this spinning cycle of terror and no matter how i hard i tried to calm myself down or reason my way out of it, i couldn't do it. it felt as if my brain was trying to kill me, and then, being afraid of being afraid consumed all of my thoughts. that's when i learned firsthand what it feels like to have a malfunctioning mind, and that's when i truly became a brain health advocate. with therapy and medication and self-care, life eventually returned to whatever could be thought of as normal under the circumstances.when i looked back on all that had happened, i could see that my son's spiral into dysfunction probably occurred over a period of about two years, plenty of time to get him help, if only someone had known that he needed help and known what to do.every time someone asks me, "how could you not have known?", it feels like a punch in the gut. it carries accusation and taps into my feelings of guilt that no matter how much therapy i've had i will never fully eradicate. but here's something i've learned: if love were enough to stop someone who is suicidal from hurting themselves, suicides would hardly ever happen. but love is not enough, and suicide is prevalent. it's the second leading cause of death for people age 10 to 34, and 15 percent of american youth report having made a suicide plan in the last year. i've learned that no matter how much we want to believe we can, we cannot know or control everything our loved ones think and feel, and the stubborn belief that we are somehow different, that someone we love would never think of hurting themselves or someone else, can cause us to miss what's hidden in plain sight. and if worst case scenarios do come to pass, we'll have to learn to forgive ourselves for not knowing or for not asking the right questions or not finding the right treatment. we should always assume that someone we love may be suffering, regardless of what they say or how they act. we should listen with our whole being, without judgments, and without offering solutions.i know that i will live with this tragedy, with these multiple tragedies, for the rest of my life. i know that in the minds of many, what i lost can't compare to what the other families lost. i know my struggle doesn't make theirs any easier. i know there are even some who think i don't have the right to any pain, but only to a life of permanent penance.in the end what i know comes down to this: the tragic fact is that even the most vigilant and responsible of us may not be able to help, but for love's sake, we must never stop trying to know the unknowable.thank you. <title = "What time is it on Mars?">
<tags = "['Mars', 'NASA', 'TEDx', 'United States', 'adventure', 'aircraft', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'discovery', 'engineering', 'exploration', 'future', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'programming', 'robots', 'science', 'solar system', 'technology', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Spacecraft operations engineer">
so many of you have probably seen the movie "the martian." but for those of you who did not, it's a movie about an astronaut who is stranded on mars, and his efforts to stay alive until the earth can send a rescue mission to bring him back to earth. gladly, they do re-establish communication with the character, astronaut watney, at some point so that he's not as alone on mars until he can be rescued. so while you're watching the movie, or even if you haven't, when you think about mars, you're probably thinking about how far away it is and how distant.and, what might not have occurred to you is, what are the logistics really like of working on another planet — of living on two planets when there are people on the earth and there are rovers or people on mars? so think about when you have friends, families and co-workers in california, on the west coast or in other parts of the world. when you're trying to communicate with them, one of the things you probably first think about is: wait, what time is it in california? will i wake them up? is it ok to call? so even if you're interacting with colleagues who are in europe, you're immediately thinking about: what does it take to coordinate communication when people are far away? so we don't have people on mars right now, but we do have rovers. and actually right now, on curiosity, it is 6:10 in the morning. so, 6:10 in the morning on mars. we have four rovers on mars. the united states has put four rovers on mars since the mid-1990s, and i have been privileged enough to work on three of them. so, i am a spacecraft engineer, a spacecraft operations engineer, at nasa's jet propulsion laboratory in los angeles, california. and these rovers are our robotic emissaries. so, they are our eyes and our ears, and they see the planet for us until we can send people. so we learn how to operate on other planets through these rovers. so before we send people, we send robots. so the reason there's a time difference on mars right now, from the time that we're at is because the martian day is longer than the earth day. our earth day is 24 hours, because that's how long it takes the earth to rotate, how long it takes to go around once. so our day is 24 hours. it takes mars 24 hours and approximately 40 minutes to rotate once. so that means that the martian day is 40 minutes longer than the earth day. so teams of people who are operating the rovers on mars, like this one, what we are doing is we are living on earth, but working on mars. so we have to think as if we are actually on mars with the rover. our job, the job of this team, of which i'm a part of, is to send commands to the rover to tell it what to do the next day. to tell it to drive or drill or tell her whatever she's supposed to do. so while she's sleeping — and the rover does sleep at night because she needs to recharge her batteries and she needs to weather the cold martian night. and so she sleeps. so while she sleeps, we work on her program for the next day. so i work the martian night shift.  so in order to come to work on the earth at the same time every day on mars — like, let's say i need to be at work at 5:00 p.m., this team needs to be at work at 5:00 p.m. mars time every day, then we have to come to work on the earth 40 minutes later every day, in order to stay in sync with mars. that's like moving a time zone every day. so one day you come in at 8:00, the next day 40 minutes later at 8:40, the next day 40 minutes later at 9:20, the next day at 10:00. so you keep moving 40 minutes every day, until soon you're coming to work in the middle of the night — the middle of the earth night. right? so you can imagine how confusing that is. hence, the mars watch.  this weights in this watch have been mechanically adjusted so that it runs more slowly. right? and we didn't start out — i got this watch in 2004 when spirit and opportunity, the rovers back then. we didn't start out thinking that we were going to need mars watches. right? we thought, ok, we'll just have the time on our computers and on the mission control screens, and that would be enough. yeah, not so much. because we weren't just working on mars time, we were actually living on mars time. and we got just instantaneously confused about what time it was. so you really needed something on your wrist to tell you: what time is it on the earth? what time is it on mars? and it wasn't just the time on mars that was confusing; we also needed to be able to talk to each other about it. so a "sol" is a martian day — again, 24 hours and 40 minutes. so when we're talking about something that's happening on the earth, we will say, today. so, for mars, we say, "tosol."  yesterday became "yestersol" for mars. again, we didn't start out thinking, "oh, let's invent a language." it was just very confusing. i remember somebody walked up to me and said, "i would like to do this activity on the vehicle tomorrow, on the rover." and i said, "tomorrow, tomorrow, or mars, tomorrow?" we started this terminology because we needed a way to talk to each other.  tomorrow became "nextersol" or "solorrow." because people have different preferences for the words they use. some of you might say "soda" and some of you might say "pop." so we have people who say "nextersol" or "solorrow." and then something that i noticed after a few years of working on these missions, was that the people who work on the rovers, we say "tosol." the people who work on the landed missions that don't rove around, they say "tosoul." so i could actually tell what mission you worked on from your martian accent.  so we have the watches and the language, and you're detecting a theme here, right? so that we don't get confused. but even the earth daylight could confuse us. if you think that right now, you've come to work and it's the middle of the martian night and there's light streaming in from the windows that's going to be confusing as well. so you can see from this image of the control room that all of the blinds are down. so that there's no light to distract us. the blinds went down all over the building about a week before landing, and they didn't go up until we went off mars time. so this also works for the house, for at home. i've been on mars time three times, and my husband is like, ok, we're getting ready for mars time. and so he'll put foil all over the windows and dark curtains and shades because it also affects your families. and so here i was living in kind of this darkened environment, but so was he. and he'd gotten used to it. but then i would get these plaintive emails from him when he was at work. should i come home? are you awake? what time is it on mars? and i decided, ok, so he needs a mars watch.  but of course, it's 2016, so there's an app for that.  so now instead of the watches, we can also use our phones. but the impact on families was just across the board; it wasn't just those of us who were working on the rovers but our families as well. this is david oh, one of our flight directors, and he's at the beach in los angeles with his family at 1:00 in the morning.  so because we landed in august and his kids didn't have to go back to school until september, they actually went on to mars time with him for one month. they got up 40 minutes later every day. and they were on dad's work schedule. so they lived on mars time for a month and had these great adventures, like going bowling in the middle of the night or going to the beach. and one of the things that we all discovered is you can get anywhere in los angeles at 3:00 in the morning when there's no traffic. so we would get off work, and we didn't want to go home and bother our families, and we were hungry, so instead of going locally to eat something, we'd go, "wait, there's this great all-night deli in long beach, and we can get there in 10 minutes!" so we would drive down — it was like the 60s, no traffic. we would drive down there, and the restaurant owners would go, "who are you people? and why are you at my restaurant at 3:00 in the morning?" so they came to realize that there were these packs of martians, roaming the la freeways, in the middle of the night — in the middle of the earth night. and we did actually start calling ourselves martians. so those of us who were on mars time would refer to ourselves as martians, and everyone else as earthlings. and that's because when you're moving a time-zone every day, you start to really feel separated from everyone else. you're literally in your own world. so i have this button on that says, "i survived mars time. sol 0-90." and there's a picture of it up on the screen. so the reason we got these buttons is because we work on mars time in order to be as efficient as possible with the rover on mars, to make the best use of our time. but we don't stay on mars time for more than three to four months. eventually, we'll move to a modified mars time, which is what we're working now. and that's because it's hard on your bodies, it's hard on your families. in fact, there were sleep researchers who actually were studying us because it was so unusual for humans to try to extend their day. and they had about 30 of us that they would do sleep deprivation experiments on. so i would come in and take the test and i fell asleep in each one. and that was because, again, this eventually becomes hard on your body. even though it was a blast. it was a huge bonding experience with the other members on the team, but it is difficult to sustain. so these rover missions are our first steps out into the solar system. we are learning how to live on more than one planet. we are changing our perspective to become multi-planetary. so the next time you see a star wars movie, and there are people going from the dagobah system to tatooine, think about what it really means to have people spread out so far. what it means in terms of the distances between them, how they will start to feel separate from each other and just the logistics of the time. we have not sent people to mars yet, but we hope to. and between companies like spacex and nasa and all of the international space agencies of the world, we hope to do that in the next few decades. so soon we will have people on mars, and we truly will be multi-planetary. and the young boy or the young girl who will be going to mars could be in this audience or listening today. i have wanted to work at jpl on these missions since i was 14 years old and i am privileged to be a part of it. and this is a remarkable time in the space program, and we are all in this journey together. so the next time you think you don't have enough time in your day, just remember, it's all a matter of your earthly perspective. thank you. <title = "The incredible inventions of intuitive AI">
<tags = "['AI', 'TEDx', 'algorithm', 'computers', 'design', 'drones', 'engineering', 'future', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'invention', 'manufacturing', 'materials', 'product design', 'robots', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Designer, futurist">
how many of you are creatives, designers, engineers, entrepreneurs, artists, or maybe you just have a really big imagination? show of hands? (cheers)that's most of you. i have some news for us creatives. over the course of the next 20 years, more will change around the way we do our work than has happened in the last 2,000. in fact, i think we're at the dawn of a new age in human history.now, there have been four major historical eras defined by the way we work. the hunter-gatherer age lasted several million years. and then the agricultural age lasted several thousand years. the industrial age lasted a couple of centuries. and now the information age has lasted just a few decades. and now today, we're on the cusp of our next great era as a species.welcome to the augmented age. in this new era, your natural human capabilities are going to be augmented by computational systems that help you think, robotic systems that help you make, and a digital nervous system that connects you to the world far beyond your natural senses. let's start with cognitive augmentation. how many of you are augmented cyborgs? i would actually argue that we're already augmented. imagine you're at a party, and somebody asks you a question that you don't know the answer to. if you have one of these, in a few seconds, you can know the answer. but this is just a primitive beginning. even siri is just a passive tool. in fact, for the last three-and-a-half million years, the tools that we've had have been completely passive. they do exactly what we tell them and nothing more. our very first tool only cut where we struck it. the chisel only carves where the artist points it. and even our most advanced tools do nothing without our explicit direction. in fact, to date, and this is something that frustrates me, we've always been limited by this need to manually push our wills into our tools — like, manual, literally using our hands, even with computers. but i'm more like scotty in "star trek." i want to have a conversation with a computer. i want to say, "computer, let's design a car," and the computer shows me a car. and i say, "no, more fast-looking, and less german," and bang, the computer shows me an option. that conversation might be a little ways off, probably less than many of us think, but right now, we're working on it. tools are making this leap from being passive to being generative. generative design tools use a computer and algorithms to synthesize geometry to come up with new designs all by themselves. all it needs are your goals and your constraints.i'll give you an example. in the case of this aerial drone chassis, all you would need to do is tell it something like, it has four propellers, you want it to be as lightweight as possible, and you need it to be aerodynamically efficient. then what the computer does is it explores the entire solution space: every single possibility that solves and meets your criteria — millions of them. it takes big computers to do this. but it comes back to us with designs that we, by ourselves, never could've imagined. and the computer's coming up with this stuff all by itself — no one ever drew anything, and it started completely from scratch. and by the way, it's no accident that the drone body looks just like the pelvis of a flying squirrel. it's because the algorithms are designed to work the same way evolution does.what's exciting is we're starting to see this technology out in the real world. we've been working with airbus for a couple of years on this concept plane for the future. it's a ways out still. but just recently we used a generative-design ai to come up with this. this is a 3d-printed cabin partition that's been designed by a computer. it's stronger than the original yet half the weight, and it will be flying in the airbus a320 later this year. so computers can now generate; they can come up with their own solutions to our well-defined problems. but they're not intuitive. they still have to start from scratch every single time, and that's because they never learn. unlike maggie. maggie's actually smarter than our most advanced design tools. what do i mean by that? if her owner picks up that leash, maggie knows with a fair degree of certainty it's time to go for a walk. and how did she learn? well, every time the owner picked up the leash, they went for a walk. and maggie did three things: she had to pay attention, she had to remember what happened and she had to retain and create a pattern in her mind.interestingly, that's exactly what computer scientists have been trying to get ais to do for the last 60 or so years. back in 1952, they built this computer that could play tic-tac-toe. big deal. then 45 years later, in 1997, deep blue beats kasparov at chess. 2011, watson beats these two humans at jeopardy, which is much harder for a computer to play than chess is. in fact, rather than working from predefined recipes, watson had to use reasoning to overcome his human opponents. and then a couple of weeks ago, deepmind's alphago beats the world's best human at go, which is the most difficult game that we have. in fact, in go, there are more possible moves than there are atoms in the universe. so in order to win, what alphago had to do was develop intuition. and in fact, at some points, alphago's programmers didn't understand why alphago was doing what it was doing.and things are moving really fast. i mean, consider — in the space of a human lifetime, computers have gone from a child's game to what's recognized as the pinnacle of strategic thought. what's basically happening is computers are going from being like spock to being a lot more like kirk. right? from pure logic to intuition. would you cross this bridge? most of you are saying, "oh, hell no!" and you arrived at that decision in a split second. you just sort of knew that bridge was unsafe. and that's exactly the kind of intuition that our deep-learning systems are starting to develop right now. very soon, you'll literally be able to show something you've made, you've designed, to a computer, and it will look at it and say, "sorry, homie, that'll never work. you have to try again." or you could ask it if people are going to like your next song, or your next flavor of ice cream. or, much more importantly, you could work with a computer to solve a problem that we've never faced before. for instance, climate change. we're not doing a very good job on our own, we could certainly use all the help we can get. that's what i'm talking about, technology amplifying our cognitive abilities so we can imagine and design things that were simply out of our reach as plain old un-augmented humans.so what about making all of this crazy new stuff that we're going to invent and design? i think the era of human augmentation is as much about the physical world as it is about the virtual, intellectual realm. how will technology augment us? in the physical world, robotic systems. ok, there's certainly a fear that robots are going to take jobs away from humans, and that is true in certain sectors. but i'm much more interested in this idea that humans and robots working together are going to augment each other, and start to inhabit a new space.this is our applied research lab in san francisco, where one of our areas of focus is advanced robotics, specifically, human-robot collaboration. and this is bishop, one of our robots. as an experiment, we set it up to help a person working in construction doing repetitive tasks — tasks like cutting out holes for outlets or light switches in drywall. so, bishop's human partner can tell what to do in plain english and with simple gestures, kind of like talking to a dog, and then bishop executes on those instructions with perfect precision. we're using the human for what the human is good at: awareness, perception and decision making. and we're using the robot for what it's good at: precision and repetitiveness.here's another cool project that bishop worked on. the goal of this project, which we called the hive, was to prototype the experience of humans, computers and robots all working together to solve a highly complex design problem. the humans acted as labor. they cruised around the construction site, they manipulated the bamboo — which, by the way, because it's a non-isomorphic material, is super hard for robots to deal with. but then the robots did this fiber winding, which was almost impossible for a human to do. and then we had an ai that was controlling everything. it was telling the humans what to do, telling the robots what to do and keeping track of thousands of individual components. what's interesting is, building this pavilion was simply not possible without human, robot and ai augmenting each other.ok, i'll share one more project. this one's a little bit crazy. we're working with amsterdam-based artist joris laarman and his team at mx3d to generatively design and robotically print the world's first autonomously manufactured bridge. so, joris and an ai are designing this thing right now, as we speak, in amsterdam. and when they're done, we're going to hit "go," and robots will start 3d printing in stainless steel, and then they're going to keep printing, without human intervention, until the bridge is finished.so, as computers are going to augment our ability to imagine and design new stuff, robotic systems are going to help us build and make things that we've never been able to make before. but what about our ability to sense and control these things? what about a nervous system for the things that we make?our nervous system, the human nervous system, tells us everything that's going on around us. but the nervous system of the things we make is rudimentary at best. for instance, a car doesn't tell the city's public works department that it just hit a pothole at the corner of broadway and morrison. a building doesn't tell its designers whether or not the people inside like being there, and the toy manufacturer doesn't know if a toy is actually being played with — how and where and whether or not it's any fun. look, i'm sure that the designers imagined this lifestyle for barbie when they designed her. but what if it turns out that barbie's actually really lonely? if the designers had known what was really happening in the real world with their designs — the road, the building, barbie — they could've used that knowledge to create an experience that was better for the user. what's missing is a nervous system connecting us to all of the things that we design, make and use. what if all of you had that kind of information flowing to you from the things you create in the real world? with all of the stuff we make, we spend a tremendous amount of money and energy — in fact, last year, about two trillion dollars — convincing people to buy the things we've made. but if you had this connection to the things that you design and create after they're out in the real world, after they've been sold or launched or whatever, we could actually change that, and go from making people want our stuff, to just making stuff that people want in the first place.the good news is, we're working on digital nervous systems that connect us to the things we design. we're working on one project with a couple of guys down in los angeles called the bandito brothers and their team. and one of the things these guys do is build insane cars that do absolutely insane things. these guys are crazy — in the best way. and what we're doing with them is taking a traditional race-car chassis and giving it a nervous system.so we instrumented it with dozens of sensors, put a world-class driver behind the wheel, took it out to the desert and drove the hell out of it for a week. and the car's nervous system captured everything that was happening to the car. we captured four billion data points; all of the forces that it was subjected to. and then we did something crazy. we took all of that data, and plugged it into a generative-design ai we call "dreamcatcher." so what do get when you give a design tool a nervous system, and you ask it to build you the ultimate car chassis? you get this. this is something that a human could never have designed. except a human did design this, but it was a human that was augmented by a generative-design ai, a digital nervous system and robots that can actually fabricate something like this.so if this is the future, the augmented age, and we're going to be augmented cognitively, physically and perceptually, what will that look like? what is this wonderland going to be like?i think we're going to see a world where we're moving from things that are fabricated to things that are farmed. where we're moving from things that are constructed to that which is grown. we're going to move from being isolated to being connected. and we'll move away from extraction to embrace aggregation. i also think we'll shift from craving obedience from our things to valuing autonomy.thanks to our augmented capabilities, our world is going to change dramatically. we're going to have a world with more variety, more connectedness, more dynamism, more complexity, more adaptability and, of course, more beauty. the shape of things to come will be unlike anything we've ever seen before. why? because what will be shaping those things is this new partnership between technology, nature and humanity. that, to me, is a future well worth looking forward to.thank you all so much. <title = "Our story of rape and reconciliation">
<tags = "['activism', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'humanity', 'identity', 'men', 'personal growth', 'sexual violence', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Writer">
[this talk contains graphic language and descriptions of sexual violence viewer discretion is advised]tom stranger: in 1996, when i was 18 years old, i had the golden opportunity to go on an international exchange program. ironically i'm an australian who prefers proper icy cold weather, so i was both excited and tearful when i got on a plane to iceland, after just having farewelled my parents and brothers goodbye. i was welcomed into the home of a beautiful icelandic family who took me hiking, and helped me get a grasp of the melodic icelandic language. i struggled a bit with the initial period of homesickness. i snowboarded after school, and i slept a lot. two hours of chemistry class in a language that you don't yet fully understand can be a pretty good sedative. my teacher recommended i try out for the school play, just to get me a bit more socially active. it turns out i didn't end up being part of the play, but through it i met thordis. we shared a lovely teenage romance, and we'd meet at lunchtimes to just hold hands and walk around old downtown reykjavík. i met her welcoming family, and she met my friends. we'd been in a budding relationship for a bit over a month when our school's christmas ball was held.thordis elva: i was 16 and in love for the first time. going together to the christmas dance was a public confirmation of our relationship, and i felt like the luckiest girl in the world. no longer a child, but a young woman. high on my newfound maturity, i felt it was only natural to try drinking rum for the first time that night, too. that was a bad idea. i became very ill, drifting in and out of consciousness in between spasms of convulsive vomiting. the security guards wanted to call me an ambulance, but tom acted as my knight in shining armor, and told them he'd take me home.it was like a fairy tale, his strong arms around me, laying me in the safety of my bed. but the gratitude that i felt towards him soon turned to horror as he proceeded to take off my clothes and get on top of me. my head had cleared up, but my body was still too weak to fight back, and the pain was blinding. i thought i'd be severed in two. in order to stay sane, i silently counted the seconds on my alarm clock. and ever since that night, i've known that there are 7,200 seconds in two hours.despite limping for days and crying for weeks, this incident didn't fit my ideas about rape like i'd seen on tv. tom wasn't an armed lunatic; he was my boyfriend. and it didn't happen in a seedy alleyway, it happened in my own bed. by the time i could identify what had happened to me as rape, he had completed his exchange program and left for australia. so i told myself it was pointless to address what had happened. and besides, it had to have been my fault, somehow.i was raised in a world where girls are taught that they get raped for a reason. their skirt was too short, their smile was too wide, their breath smelled of alcohol. and i was guilty of all of those things, so the shame had to be mine. it took me years to realize that only one thing could have stopped me from being raped that night, and it wasn't my skirt, it wasn't my smile, it wasn't my childish trust. the only thing that could've stopped me from being raped that night is the man who raped me — had he stopped himself.ts: i have vague memories of the next day: the after effects of drinking, a certain hollowness that i tried to stifle. nothing more. but i didn't show up at thordis's door. it is important to now state that i didn't see my deed for what it was. the word "rape" didn't echo around my mind as it should've, and i wasn't crucifying myself with memories of the night before. it wasn't so much a conscious refusal, it was more like any acknowledgment of reality was forbidden. my definition of my actions completely refuted any recognition of the immense trauma i caused thordis. to be honest, i repudiated the entire act in the days afterwards and when i was committing it. i disavowed the truth by convincing myself it was sex and not rape. and this is a lie i've felt spine-bending guilt for.i broke up with thordis a couple of days later, and then saw her a number of times during the remainder of my year in iceland, feeling a sharp stab of heavyheartedness each time. deep down, i knew i'd done something immeasurably wrong. but without planning it, i sunk the memories deep, and then i tied a rock to them.what followed is a nine-year period that can best be titled as "denial and running." when i got a chance to identify the real torment that i caused, i didn't stand still long enough to do so. whether it be via distraction, substance use, thrill-seeking or the scrupulous policing of my inner speak, i refused to be static and silent.and with this noise, i also drew heavily upon other parts of my life to construct a picture of who i was. i was a surfer, a social science student, a friend to good people, a loved brother and son, an outdoor recreation guide, and eventually, a youth worker. i gripped tight to the simple notion that i wasn't a bad person. i didn't think i had this in my bones. i thought i was made up of something else. in my nurtured upbringing, my loving extended family and role models, people close to me were warm and genuine in their respect shown towards women. it took me a long time to stare down this dark corner of myself, and to ask it questions.te: nine years after the christmas dance, i was 25 years old, and headed straight for a nervous breakdown. my self-worth was buried under a soul-crushing load of silence that isolated me from everyone that i cared about, and i was consumed with misplaced hatred and anger that i took out on myself.one day, i stormed out of the door in tears after a fight with a loved one, and i wandered into a café, where i asked the waitress for a pen. i always had a notebook with me, claiming that it was to jot down ideas in moments of inspiration, but the truth was that i needed to be constantly fidgeting, because in moments of stillness, i found myself counting seconds again. but that day, i watched in wonder as the words streamed out of my pen, forming the most pivotal letter i've ever written, addressed to tom. along with an account of the violence that he subjected me to, the words, "i want to find forgiveness" stared back at me, surprising nobody more than myself. but deep down i realized that this was my way out of my suffering, because regardless of whether or not he deserved my forgiveness, i deserved peace. my era of shame was over.before sending the letter, i prepared myself for all kinds of negative responses, or what i found likeliest: no response whatsoever. the only outcome that i didn't prepare myself for was the one that i then got — a typed confession from tom, full of disarming regret. as it turns out, he, too, had been imprisoned by silence. and this marked the start of an eight-year-long correspondence that god knows was never easy, but always honest. i relieved myself of the burdens that i'd wrongfully shouldered, and he, in turn, wholeheartedly owned up to what he'd done. our written exchanges became a platform to dissect the consequences of that night, and they were everything from gut-wrenching to healing beyond words.and yet, it didn't bring about closure for me. perhaps because the email format didn't feel personal enough, perhaps because it's easy to be brave when you're hiding behind a computer screen on the other side of the planet. but we'd begun a dialogue that i felt was necessary to explore to its fullest. so, after eight years of writing, and nearly 16 years after that dire night, i mustered the courage to propose a wild idea: that we'd meet up in person and face our past once and for all.ts: iceland and australia are geographically like this. in the middle of the two is south africa. we decided upon the city of cape town, and there we met for one week. the city itself proved to be a stunningly powerful environment to focus on reconciliation and forgiveness. nowhere else has healing and rapprochement been tested like it has in south africa. as a nation, south africa sought to sit within the truth of its past, and to listen to the details of its history. knowing this only magnified the effect that cape town had on us.over the course of this week, we literally spoke our life stories to each other, from start to finish. and this was about analyzing our own history. we followed a strict policy of being honest, and this also came with a certain exposure, an open-chested vulnerability. there were gutting confessions, and moments where we just absolutely couldn't fathom the other person's experience. the seismic effects of sexual violence were spoken aloud and felt, face to face. at other times, though, we found a soaring clarity, and even some totally unexpected but liberating laughter. when it came down to it, we did out best to listen to each other intently. and our individual realities were aired with an unfiltered purity that couldn't do any less than lighten the soul.te: wanting to take revenge is a very human emotion — instinctual, even. and all i wanted to do for years was to hurt tom back as deeply as he had hurt me. but had i not found a way out of the hatred and anger, i'm not sure i'd be standing here today. that isn't to say that i didn't have my doubts along the way. when the plane bounced on that landing strip in cape town, i remember thinking, "why did i not just get myself a therapist and a bottle of vodka like a normal person would do?" at times, our search for understanding in cape town felt like an impossible quest, and all i wanted to do was to give up and go home to my loving husband, vidir, and our son. but despite our difficulties, this journey did result in a victorious feeling that light had triumphed over darkness, that something constructive could be built out of the ruins.i read somewhere that you should try and be the person that you needed when you were younger. and back when i was a teenager, i would have needed to know that the shame wasn't mine, that there's hope after rape, that you can even find happiness, like i share with my husband today. which is why i started writing feverishly upon my return from cape town, resulting in a book co-authored by tom, that we hope can be of use to people from both ends of the perpetrator-survivor scale. if nothing else, it's a story that we would've needed to hear when we were younger.given the nature of our story, i know the words that inevitably accompany it — victim, rapist — and labels are a way to organize concepts, but they can also be dehumanizing in their connotations. once someone's been deemed a victim, it's that much easier to file them away as someone damaged, dishonored, less than. and likewise, once someone has been branded a rapist, it's that much easier to call him a monster — inhuman. but how will we understand what it is in human societies that produces violence if we refuse to recognize the humanity of those who commit it? and how — and how can we empower survivors if we're making them feel less than? how can we discuss solutions to one of the biggest threats to the lives of women and children around the world, if the very words we use are part of the problem?ts: from what i've now learnt, my actions that night in 1996 were a self-centered taking. i felt deserving of thordis's body. i've had primarily positive social influences and examples of equitable behavior around me. but on that occasion, i chose to draw upon the negative ones. the ones that see women as having less intrinsic worth, and of men having some unspoken and symbolic claim to their bodies. these influences i speak of are external to me, though. and it was only me in that room making choices, nobody else.when you own something and really square up to your culpability, i do think a surprising thing can happen. it's what i call a paradox of ownership. i thought i'd buckle under the weight of responsibility. i thought my certificate of humanity would be burnt. instead, i was offered to really own what i did, and found that it didn't possess the entirety of who i am. put simply, something you've done doesn't have to constitute the sum of who you are. the noise in my head abated. the indulgent self-pity was starved of oxygen, and it was replaced with the clean air of acceptance — an acceptance that i did hurt this wonderful person standing next to me; an acceptance that i am part of a large and shockingly everyday grouping of men who have been sexually violent toward their partners.don't underestimate the power of words. saying to thordis that i raped her changed my accord with myself, as well as with her. but most importantly, the blame transferred from thordis to me. far too often, the responsibility is attributed to female survivors of sexual violence, and not to the males who enact it. far too often, the denial and running leaves all parties at a great distance from the truth. there's definitely a public conversation happening now, and like a lot of people, we're heartened that there's less retreating from this difficult but important discussion. i feel a real responsibility to add our voices to it.te: what we did is not a formula that we're prescribing for others. nobody has the right to tell anyone else how to handle their deepest pain or their greatest error. breaking your silence is never easy, and depending on where you are in the world, it can even be deadly to speak out about rape. i realize that even the most traumatic event of my life is still a testament to my privilege, because i can talk about it without getting ostracized, or even killed. but with that privilege of having a voice comes the responsibility of using it. that's the least i owe my fellow survivors who can't.the story we've just relayed is unique, and yet it is so common with sexual violence being a global pandemic. but it doesn't have to be that way. one of the things that i found useful on my own healing journey is educating myself about sexual violence. and as a result, i've been reading, writing and speaking about this issue for over a decade now, going to conferences around the world. and in my experience, the attendees of such events are almost exclusively women. but it's about time that we stop treating sexual violence as a women's issue. a majority of sexual violence against women and men is perpetrated by men. and yet their voices are sorely underrepresented in this discussion. but all of us are needed here. just imagine all the suffering we could alleviate if we dared to face this issue together.thank you. <title = "New nanotech to detect cancer early">
<tags = "['biology', 'biotech', 'cancer', 'disease', 'future', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'invention', 'motivation', 'nanoscale', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Cancer fighter">
"you have cancer." sadly, about 40 percent of us will hear those three words within our lifetime, and half will not survive. this means that two out of five of your closest friends and relatives will be diagnosed with some form of cancer, and one will die. beyond the physical hardships, roughly one-third of cancer survivors here in the us will go into debt from treatment. and they're at least two and a half times more likely to declare bankruptcy than those without cancer. this disease is pervasive. it's emotionally draining and, for many, financially destructive.but a cancer diagnosis doesn't have to be a death sentence. finding cancer early, closer its genesis, is one of the critical factors to improving treatment options, reducing its emotional impact and minimizing financial burdens. most importantly, finding cancer early — which is one of the primary aims of my research — greatly enhances your odds of survival. if we just look at the case of breast cancer for example, we find that those who are diagnosed and treated at stage one have a five-year survival rate of nearly 100 percent — odds that decrease to just 22 percent if treated at stage four. and similar trends are found for colorectal and ovarian cancer.now, we're all aware that an early diagnosis that is accurate is critical for survival. the problem is that many cancer diagnostic tools are invasive, costly, often inaccurate and they can take an agonizing amount of time to get the results back. still worse, when it comes to some forms of cancer, such as ovarian, liver or pancreatic cancer, good screening methods simply don't exist, meaning that often people wait until physical symptoms surface, which are themselves already indicators of late-stage progression. like a tornado strike in an area without an early warning system, there is no alarm to warn, for the danger is already at your doorstep when your odds of survival are greatly reduced. having the convenience and accessibility of regular screening options that are affordable, noninvasive and could provide results much sooner, would provide us with a formidable weapon in the fight against cancer.an early warning would allow us to get out ahead of the disease instead of merely following in its relentless wake. and this is exactly what i've been doing. for the past three years, i've been developing technologies that could ultimately aid clinicians with rapid, early-stage cancer diagnostics. and i've been fueled by a deep scientific curiosity, and a passion to change these statistics.last year however, this fight became much more personal when my wife was diagnosed with breast cancer. it was an experience that added a strong and unexpected emotional dimension to these efforts. i know firsthand how life-altering treatment can be, and i'm keenly aware of the emotional havoc that cancer can wreak on a family, which in our case included our two young daughters. because we found it early during a routine mammogram, we were able to focus primarily on treatment options for the localized tumor, reaffirming to me how important an early diagnosis is. unlike other forms of cancer, mammograms do offer an early-stage screening option for breast cancer. still, not everyone has this done, or they may develop breast cancer before the middle age recommendation for having a mammogram. so, there's still a lot of room for improvement, even for cancers that do have screening options, and, of course, considerable benefits for those that don't.a key challenge then for cancer researchers is to develop methods that make regular screening for many types of cancers much more accessible. imagine a scenario where during your regular checkup, your doctor can take a simple, noninvasive urine sample, or other liquid biopsy, and present you with the results before you even leave the doctor's office. such a technology could dramatically reduce the number of people who slip through the net of an early-stage cancer diagnosis.my research team of engineers and biochemists is working on exactly this challenge. we're working on ways to frequently activate an early-stage cancer alarm by enabling regular screenings that would start when a person is healthy so that action could be taken to stop cancer the moment it emerges, and before it can progress beyond its infancy. the silver bullet in this case are tiny vesicles, little escape pods regularly shed by cells called exosomes. exosomes are important biomarkers that provide an early-warning system for the development of cancer. and because they're abundantly present in just about every bodily fluid, including blood, urine and saliva, they're extremely attractive for noninvasive liquid biopsies.there's just one problem. an automated system for rapidly sorting these important biomarkers is not currently available. we've created a technology that we call nano-dld that is capable of precisely this: automated exosome isolation to aid rapid cancer diagnostics. exosomes are the newest early-warning weapon, if you will, to emerge on the liquid biopsy front. and they're really, really small. they measure just 30 to 150 nanometers in diameter. this is so tiny that you could fit about a million of them into a single red blood cell. that's roughly the difference between a golf ball and a fine grain piece of sand.once thought to be little bins for unwanted cellular waste, it has been found that cells actually communicate by producing and absorbing these exosomes which contain surface receptors, proteins and other genetic material collected from their cell of origin. when absorbed by a neighboring cell, exosomes release their contents into the receiving cell, and can set in motion fundamental changes in gene expression — some good, and this is where cancer comes in, some bad. because they are clothed in the material of the mother cell, and contain a sample of its environment, they provide a genetic snapshot of that cell's health and its origin. all of these qualities make exosomes invaluable messengers that potentially allow physicians to eavesdrop on your health at the cellular level.to catch cancer early, however, you have to frequently intercept these messages to determine when cancer-causing troublemakers within your body decide to start staging a coup, which is why regular screening is so critical and why we're developing technologies to make this possible. while the first exosome-based diagnostics emerged on the market just this year, they are not yet part of mainstream healthcare options. in addition to their recent emergence, another factor that's limiting their widespread adoption is that currently, no automated exosome isolation system exists to make regular screening economically accessible. the current gold standard for exosome isolation includes ultracentrifugation, a process requiring expensive laboratory equipment, a trained lab tech and about 30 hours of time to process a sample. we've come up with a different approach for achieving automated exosome isolation from a sample such as urine. we use a chip-based, continuous flow separation technique called deterministic lateral displacement. and we have done with it what the semiconductor industry has done so successfully for the past 50 years. we shrunk the dimensions of this technology from the micron scale to the true nanoscale.so how does it work? in a nutshell, a set of tiny pillars separated by nanoscopic gaps are arranged in such a way that the system divides the fluid into streamlines, with the larger cancer-related nanoparticles being separated through a process of redirection from the smaller, healthier ones, which can in contrast move around the pillars in a zigzag-type motion in the direction of fluid flow. the net result is a complete separation of these two particle populations. you can visualize this separation process similar to traffic on a highway that separates into two roads, with one road going into a low-clearance tunnel under a mountain, and the other road going around it. here, smaller cars can go through the tunnel while larger trucks, carrying potentially hazardous material, are forced to take the detour route. traffic is effectively separated by size and contents without impeding its flow. and this is exactly how our system works on a much, much smaller scale.the idea here is that the separation process for screening could be as simple as processing a sample of urine, blood or saliva, which is a near-term possibility within the next few years. ultimately, it could be used to isolate and detect target exosomes associated with a particular type of cancer, sensing and reporting their presence within minutes. this would make rapid diagnostics virtually painless. broadly speaking, the ability to separate and enrich biomarkers with nanoscale precision in an automated way, opens the door to better understanding diseases such as cancer, with applications ranging from sample preparation to diagnostics, and from drug resistance monitoring to therapeutics.even before my wife's bout with cancer, it was a dream of mine to facilitate the automation of this process — to make regular screening more accessible, similar to the way henry ford made the automobile accessible to the general population through development of the assembly line. automation is the key to accessibility. and in the spirit of the hoover dream, "a chicken in every pot and a car in every garage," we're developing a technology that could ultimately place an early-warning cancer detection system in every home. this would allow every man, woman and child the opportunity to be regularly tested while they're still healthy, catching cancer when it first emerges.it is my hope and dream to help people around the world avoid the high costs — physical, financial and emotional — faced by today's cancer patients, hardships that i'm well acquainted with. i'm also happy to report that because we caught my wife's cancer early, her treatment was successful, and she is now, thankfully, cancer-free. it is an outcome that i would like to see for everyone with a cancer diagnosis. with the work that my team has already done on separation of nanoscale biomarkers for rapid, early-stage cancer diagnostics, i am optimistic that within the next decade, this type of technology will be available, helping protect our friends, our family and future generations. even if we are so unlucky as to be diagnosed with cancer, that early-stage alarm will provide a strong beacon of hope.thank you. <title = "4 ways to make a city more walkable">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'architecture', 'cars', 'cities', 'collaboration', 'community', 'design', 'engineering', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'potential', 'public spaces', 'society', 'urban', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Urban planner">
so i'm here to talk to you about the walkable city. what is the walkable city? well, for want of a better definition, it's a city in which the car is an optional instrument of freedom, rather than a prosthetic device. and i'd like to talk about why we need the walkable city, and i'd like to talk about how to do the walkable city.most of the talks i give these days are about why we need it, but you guys are smart. and also i gave that talk exactly a month ago, and you can see it at ted.com. so today i want to talk about how to do it. in a lot of time thinking about this, i've come up with what i call the general theory of walkability. a bit of a pretentious term, it's a little tongue-in-cheek, but it's something i've thought about for a long time, and i'd like to share what i think i've figured out.in the american city, the typical american city — the typical american city is not washington, dc, or new york, or san francisco; it's grand rapids or cedar rapids or memphis — in the typical american city in which most people own cars and the temptation is to drive them all the time, if you're going to get them to walk, then you have to offer a walk that's as good as a drive or better. what does that mean? it means you need to offer four things simultaneously: there needs to be a proper reason to walk, the walk has to be safe and feel safe, the walk has to be comfortable and the walk has to be interesting. you need to do all four of these things simultaneously, and that's the structure of my talk today, to take you through each of those.the reason to walk is a story i learned from my mentors, andrés duany and elizabeth plater-zyberk, the founders of the new urbanism movement. and i should say half the slides and half of my talk today i learned from them. it's the story of planning, the story of the formation of the planning profession. when in the 19th century people were choking from the soot of the dark, satanic mills, the planners said, hey, let's move the housing away from the mills. and lifespans increased immediately, dramatically, and we like to say the planners have been trying to repeat that experience ever since.so there's the onset of what we call euclidean zoning, the separation of the landscape into large areas of single use. and typically when i arrive in a city to do a plan, a plan like this already awaits me on the property that i'm looking at. and all a plan like this guarantees is that you will not have a walkable city, because nothing is located near anything else. the alternative, of course, is our most walkable city, and i like to say, you know, this is a rothko, and this is a seurat. it's just a different way — he was the pointilist — it's a different way of making places. and even this map of manhattan is a bit misleading because the red color is uses that are mixed vertically.so this is the big story of the new urbanists — to acknowledge that there are only two ways that have been tested by the thousands to build communities, in the world and throughout history. one is the traditional neighborhood. you see here several neighborhoods of newburyport, massachusetts, which is defined as being compact and being diverse — places to live, work, shop, recreate, get educated — all within walking distance. and it's defined as being walkable. there are lots of small streets. each one is comfortable to walk on. and we contrast that to the other way, an invention that happened after the second world war, suburban sprawl, clearly not compact, clearly not diverse, and it's not walkable, because so few of the streets connect, that those streets that do connect become overburdened, and you wouldn't let your kid out on them. and i want to thank alex maclean, the aerial photographer, for many of these beautiful pictures that i'm showing you today.so it's fun to break sprawl down into its constituent parts. it's so easy to understand, the places where you only live, the places where you only work, the places where you only shop, and our super-sized public institutions. schools get bigger and bigger, and therefore, further and further from each other. and the ratio of the size of the parking lot to the size of the school tells you all you need to know, which is that no child has ever walked to this school, no child will ever walk to this school. the seniors and juniors are driving the freshmen and the sophomores, and of course we have the crash statistics to prove it.and then the super-sizing of our other civic institutions like playing fields — it's wonderful that westin in the ft. lauderdale area has eight soccer fields and eight baseball diamonds and 20 tennis courts, but look at the road that takes you to that location, and would you let your child bike on it? and this is why we have the soccer mom now. when i was young, i had one soccer field, one baseball diamond and one tennis court, but i could walk to it, because it was in my neighborhood.then the final part of sprawl that everyone forgot to count: if you're going to separate everything from everything else and reconnect it only with automotive infrastructure, then this is what your landscape begins to look like. the main message here is: if you want to have a walkable city, you can't start with the sprawl model. you need the bones of an urban model. this is the outcome of that form of design, as is this. and this is something that a lot of americans want. but we have to understand it's a two-part american dream. if you're dreaming for this, you're also going to be dreaming of this, often to absurd extremes, when we build our landscape to accommodate cars first. and the experience of being in these places — this is not photoshopped. walter kulash took this slide. it's in panama city. this is a real place. and being a driver can be a bit of a nuisance, and being a pedestrian can be a bit of a nuisance in these places. this is a slide that epidemiologists have been showing for some time now, the fact that we have a society where you drive to the parking lot to take the escalator to the treadmill shows that we're doing something wrong. but we know how to do it better.here are the two models contrasted. i show this slide, which has been a formative document of the new urbanism now for almost 30 years, to show that sprawl and the traditional neighborhood contain the same things. it's just how big are they, how close are they to each other, how are they interspersed together and do you have a street network, rather than a cul-de-sac or a collector system of streets?so when we look at a downtown area, at a place that has a hope of being walkable, and mostly that's our downtowns in america's cities and towns and villages, we look at them and say we want the proper balance of uses. so what is missing or underrepresented? and again, in the typical american cities in which most americans live, it is housing that is lacking. the jobs-to-housing balance is off. and you find that when you bring housing back, these other things start to come back too, and housing is usually first among those things. and, of course, the thing that shows up last and eventually is the schools, because the people have to move in, the young pioneers have to move in, get older, have kids and fight, and then the schools get pretty good eventually.the other part of this part, the useful city part, is transit, and you can have a perfectly walkable neighborhood without it. but perfectly walkable cities require transit, because if you don't have access to the whole city as a pedestrian, then you get a car, and if you get a car, the city begins to reshape itself around your needs, and the streets get wider and the parking lots get bigger and you no longer have a walkable city. so transit is essential. but every transit experience, every transit trip, begins or ends as a walk, and so we have to remember to build walkability around our transit stations.next category, the biggest one, is the safe walk. it's what most walkability experts talk about. it is essential, but alone not enough to get people to walk. and there are so many moving parts that add up to a walkable city.the first is block size. this is portland, oregon, famously 200-foot blocks, famously walkable. this is salt lake city, famously 600-foot blocks, famously unwalkable. if you look at the two, it's almost like two different planets, but these places were both built by humans and in fact, the story is that when you have a 200-foot block city, you can have a two-lane city, or a two-to-four lane city, and a 600-foot block city is a six-lane city, and that's a problem. these are the crash statistics. when you double the block size — this was a study of 24 california cities — when you double the block size, you almost quadruple the number of fatal accidents on non-highway streets.so how many lanes do we have? this is where i'm going to tell you what i tell every audience i meet, which is to remind you about induced demand. induced demand applies both to highways and to city streets. and induced demand tells us that when we widen the streets to accept the congestion that we're anticipating, or the additional trips that we're anticipating in congested systems, it is principally that congestion that is constraining demand, and so that the widening comes, and there are all of these latent trips that are ready to happen. people move further from work and make other choices about when they commute, and those lanes fill up very quickly with traffic, so we widen the street again, and they fill up again. and we've learned that in congested systems, we cannot satisfy the automobile.this is from newsweek magazine — hardly an esoteric publication: "today's engineers acknowledge that building new roads usually makes traffic worse." my response to reading this was, may i please meet some of these engineers, because these are not the ones that i — there are great exceptions that i'm working with now — but these are not the engineers one typically meets working in a city, where they say, "oh, that road is too crowded, we need to add a lane." so you add a lane, and the traffic comes, and they say, "see, i told you we needed that lane." this applies both to highways and to city streets if they're congested.but the amazing thing about most american cities that i work in, the more typical cities, is that they have a lot of streets that are actually oversized for the congestion they're currently experiencing. this was the case in oklahoma city, when the mayor came running to me, very upset, because they were named in prevention magazine the worst city for pedestrians in the entire country. now that can't possibly be true, but it certainly is enough to make a mayor do something about it. we did a walkability study, and what we found, looking at the car counts on the street — these are 3,000-, 4,000-, 7,000-car counts and we know that two lanes can handle 10,000 cars per day. look at these numbers — they're all near or under 10,000 cars, and these were the streets that were designated in the new downtown plan to be four lanes to six lanes wide. so you had a fundamental disconnect between the number of lanes and the number of cars that wanted to use them.so it was my job to redesign every street in the downtown from curb face to curb face, and we did it for 50 blocks of streets, and we're rebuilding it now. so a typical oversized street to nowhere is being narrowed, and now under construction, and the project is half done. the typical street like this, you know, when you do that, you find room for medians. you find room for bike lanes. we've doubled the amount of on-street parking. we've added a full bike network where one didn't exist before.but not everyone has the money that oklahoma city has, because they have an extraction economy that's doing quite well. the typical city is more like cedar rapids, where they have an all four-lane system, half one-way system. and it's a little hard to see, but what we've done — what we're doing; it's in process right now, it's in engineering right now — is turning an all four-lane system, half one-way into an all two-lane system, all two-way, and in so doing, we're adding 70 percent more on-street parking, which the merchants love, and it protects the sidewalk. that parking makes the sidewalk safe, and we're adding a much more robust bicycle network.then the lanes themselves. how wide are they? that's really important. the standards have changed such that, as andrés duany says, the typical road to a subdivision in america allows you to see the curvature of the earth. this is a subdivision outside of washington from the 1960s. look very carefully at the width of the streets. this is a subdivision from the 1980s. 1960s, 1980s. the standards have changed to such a degree that my old neighborhood of south beach, when it was time to fix the street that wasn't draining properly, they had to widen it and take away half our sidewalk, because the standards were wider. people go faster on wider streets. people know this. the engineers deny it, but the citizens know it, so that in birmingham, michigan, they fight for narrower streets. portland, oregon, famously walkable, instituted its "skinny streets" program in its residential neighborhood. we know that skinny streets are safer. the developer vince graham, in his project i'on, which we worked on in south carolina, he goes to conferences and he shows his amazing 22-foot roads. these are two-way roads, very narrow rights of way, and he shows this well-known philosopher, who said, "broad is the road that leads to destruction ... narrow is the road that leads to life." this plays very well in the south.now: bicycles. bicycles and bicycling are the current revolution underway in only some american cities. but where you build it, they come. as a planner, i hate to say that, but the one thing i can say is that bicycle population is a function of bicycle infrastructure. i asked my friend tom brennan from nelson\nygaard in portland to send me some pictures of the portland bike commute. he sent me this. i said, "was that bike to work day?" he said, "no, that was tuesday." when you do what portland did and spend money on bicycle infrastructure — new york city has doubled the number of bikers in it several times now by painting these bright green lanes. even automotive cities like long beach, california: vast uptick in the number of bikers based on the infrastructure. and of course, what really does it, if you know 15th street here in washington, dc — please meet rahm emanuel's new bike lanes in chicago, the buffered lane, the parallel parking pulled off the curb, the bikes between the parked cars and the curb — these mint cyclists. if, however, as in pasadena, every lane is a bike lane, then no lane is a bike lane. and this is the only bicyclist that i met in pasadena, so ... the parallel parking i mentioned — it's an essential barrier of steel that protects the curb and pedestrians from moving vehicles. this is ft. lauderdale; one side of the street, you can park, the other side of the street, you can't. this is happy hour on the parking side. this is sad hour on the other side. and then the trees themselves slow cars down. they move slower when trees are next to the road, and, of course, sometimes they slow down very quickly. all the little details — the curb return radius. is it one foot or is it 40 feet? how swoopy is that curb to determine how fast the car goes and how much room you have to cross. and then i love this, because this is objective journalism. "some say the entrance to citycenter is not inviting to pedestrians." when every aspect of the landscape is swoopy, is aerodynamic, is stream-form geometrics, it says: "this is a vehicular place." so no one detail, no one speciality, can be allowed to set the stage. and here, you know, this street: yes, it will drain within a minute of the hundred-year storm, but this poor woman has to mount the curb every day.so then quickly, the comfortable walk has to do with the fact that all animals seek, simultaneously, prospect and refuge. we want to be able to see our predators, but we also want to feel that our flanks are covered. and so we're drawn to places that have good edges, and if you don't supply the edges, people won't want to be there. what's the proper ratio of height to width? is it one to one? three to one? if you get beyond one to six, you're not very comfortable anymore. you don't feel enclosed. now, six to one in salzburg can be perfectly delightful. the opposite of salzburg is houston. the point being the parking lot is the principal problem here. however, missing teeth, those empty lots can be issues as well, and if you have a missing corner because of an outdated zoning code, then you could have a missing nose in your neighborhood. that's what we had in my neighborhood. this was the zoning code that said i couldn't build on that site. as you may know, washington, dc is now changing its zoning to allow sites like this to become sites like this. we needed a lot of variances to do that. triangular houses can be interesting to build, but if you get one built, people generally like it. so you've got to fill those missing noses.and then, finally, the interesting walk: signs of humanity. we are among the social primates. nothing interests us more than other people. we want signs of people. so the perfect one-to-one ratio, it's a great thing. this is grand rapids, a very walkable city, but nobody walks on this street that connects the two best hotels together, because if on the left, you have an exposed parking deck, and on the right, you have a conference facility that was apparently designed in admiration for that parking deck, then you don't attract that many people. mayor joe riley, in his 10th term, mayor of charleston, south carolina, taught us it only takes 25 feet of building to hide 250 feet of garage. this one i call the chia pet garage. it's in south beach. that active ground floor.i want to end with this project that i love to show. it's by meleca architects. it's in columbus, ohio. to the left is the convention center neighborhood, full of pedestrians. to the right is the short north neighborhood — ethnic, great restaurants, great shops, struggling. it wasn't doing very well because this was the bridge, and no one was walking from the convention center into that neighborhood. well, when they rebuilt the highway, they added an extra 80 feet to the bridge. sorry — they rebuilt the bridge over the highway. the city paid 1.9 million dollars, they gave the site to a developer, the developer built this and now the short north has come back to life. and everyone says, the newspapers, not the planning magazines, the newspapers say it's because of that bridge.so that's it. that's the general theory of walkability. think about your own cities. think about how you can apply it. you've got to do all four things at once. so find those places where you have most of them and fix what you can, fix what still needs fixing in those places.i really appreciate your attention, and thank you for coming today. <title = "What it's like to be a parent in a war zone">
<tags = "['Middle East', 'Syria', 'TEDx', 'children', 'communication', 'community', 'disaster relief', 'family', 'fear', 'humanity', 'parenting', 'psychology', 'refugees', 'security', 'teaching', 'violence', 'vulnerability', 'war']">
<occupation = "Humanitarian psychologist">
worldwide, over 1.5 billion people experience armed conflict. in response, people are forced to flee their country, leaving over 15 million refugees. children, without a doubt, are the most innocent and vulnerable victims ... but not just from the obvious physical dangers, but from the often unspoken effects that wars have on their families. the experiences of war leave children at a real high risk for the development of emotional and behavioral problems. children, as we can only imagine, will feel worried, threatened and at risk. but there is good news. the quality of care that children receive in their families can have a more significant effect on their well-being than from the actual experiences of war that they have been exposed to. so actually, children can be protected by warm, secure parenting during and after conflict.in 2011, i was a first-year phd student in the university of manchester school of psychological sciences. like many of you here, i watched the crisis in syria unfold in front of me on the tv. my family is originally from syria, and very early on, i lost several family members in really horrifying ways. i'd sit and i'd gather with my family and watch the tv. we've all seen those scenes: bombs destroying buildings, chaos, destruction and people screaming and running. it was always the people screaming and running that really got me the most, especially those terrified-looking children. i was a mother to two young, typically inquisitive children. they were five and six then, at an age where they typically asked lots and lots of questions, and expected real, convincing answers. so, i began to wonder what it might be like to parent my children in a war zone and a refugee camp. would my children change? would my daughter's bright, happy eyes lose their shine? would my son's really relaxed and carefree nature become fearful and withdrawn? how would i cope? would i change?as psychologists and parent trainers, we know that arming parents with skills in caring for their children can have a huge effect on their well-being, and we call this parent training. the question i had was, could parent training programs be useful for families while they were still in war zones or refugee camps? could we reach them with advice or training that would help them through these struggles? so i approached my phd supervisor, professor rachel calam, with the idea of using my academic skills to make some change in the real world. i wasn't quite sure what exactly i wanted to do. she listened carefully and patiently, and then to my joy she said, "if that's what you want to do, and it means so much to you, then let's do it. let's find ways to see if parent programs can be useful for families in these contexts."so for the past five years, myself and my colleagues — prof. calam and dr. kim cartwright — have been working on ways to support families that have experienced war and displacement. now, to know how to help families that have been through conflict support their children, the first step must obviously be to ask them what they're struggling with, right? i mean, it seems obvious. but it's often those that are the most vulnerable, that we're trying to support, that we actually don't ask. how many times have we just assumed we know exactly the right thing that's going to help someone or something without actually asking them first?so i travelled to refugee camps in syria and in turkey, and i sat with families, and i listened. i listened to their parenting challenges, i listened to their parenting struggles and i listened to their call for help. and sometimes that was just paused, as all i could do was hold hands with them and just join them in silent crying and prayer. they told me about their struggles, they told me about the rough, harsh refugee camp conditions that made it hard to focus on anything but practical chores like collecting clean water. they told me how they watched their children withdraw; the sadness, depression, anger, bed-wetting, thumb-sucking, fear of loud noises, fear of nightmares — terrifying, terrifying nightmares. these families had been through what we had been watching on the tv. the mothers — almost half of them were now widows of war, or didn't even know if their husbands were dead or alive — described how they felt they were coping so badly. they watched their children change and they had no idea how to help them. they didn't know how to answer their children's questions.what i found incredibly astonishing and so motivational was that these families were so motivated to support their children. despite all these challenges they faced, they were trying to help their children. they were making attempts at seeking support from ngo workers, from refugee camp teachers, professional medics, other parents. one mother i met had only been in a camp for four days, and had already made two attempts at seeking support for her eight-year-old daughter who was having terrifying nightmares. but sadly, these attempts are almost always useless. refugee camp doctors, when available, are almost always too busy, or don't have the knowledge or the time for basic parenting supports. refugee camp teachers and other parents are just like them — part of a new refugee community who's struggling with new needs.so then we began to think. how could we help these families? the families were struggling with things much bigger than they could cope with. the syrian crisis made it clear how incredibly impossible it would be to reach families on an individual level. how else could we help them? how would we reach families at a population level and low costs in these terrifying, terrifying times?after hours of speaking to ngo workers, one suggested a fantastic innovative idea of distributing parenting information leaflets via bread wrappers — bread wrappers that were being delivered to families in a conflict zone in syria by humanitarian workers. so that's what we did. the bread wrappers haven't changed at all in their appearance, except for the addition of two pieces of paper. one was a parenting information leaflet that had basic advice and information that normalized to the parent what they might be experiencing, and what their child might be experiencing. and information on how they could support themselves and their children, such as information like spending time talking to your child, showing them more affection, being more patient with your child, talking to your children. the other piece of paper was a feedback questionnaire, and of course, there was a pen. so is this simply leaflet distribution, or is this actually a possible means of delivering psychological first aid that provides warm, secure, loving parenting?we managed to distribute 3,000 of these in just one week. what was incredible was we had a 60 percent response rate. 60 percent of the 3,000 families responded. i don't know how many researchers we have here today, but that kind of response rate is fantastic. to have that in manchester would be a huge achievement, let alone in a conflict zone in syria — really highlighting how important these kinds of messages were to families. i remember how excited and eager we were for the return of the questionnaires. the families had left hundreds of messages — most incredibly positive and encouraging. but my favorite has got to be, "thank you for not forgetting about us and our children." this really illustrates the potential means of the delivery of psychological first aid to families, and the return of feedback, too. just imagine replicating this using other means such as baby milk distribution, or female hygiene kits, or even food baskets.but let's bring this closer to home, because the refugee crisis is one that is having an effect on every single one of us. we're bombarded with images daily of statistics and of photos, and that's not surprising, because by last month, over one million refugees had reached europe. one million. refugees are joining our communities, they're becoming our neighbors, their children are attending our children's schools. so we've adapted the leaflet to meet the needs of european refugees, and we have them online, open-access, in areas with a really high refugee influx. for example, the swedish healthcare uploaded it onto their website, and within the first 45 minutes, it was downloaded 343 times — really highlighting how important it is for volunteers, practitioners and other parents to have open-access, psychological first-aid messages.in 2013, i was sitting on the cold, hard floor of a refugee camp tent with mothers sitting around me as i was conducting a focus group. across from me stood an elderly lady with what seemed to be a 13-year-old girl lying beside her, with her head on the elderly lady's knees. the girl stayed quiet throughout the focus group, not talking at all, with her knees curled up against her chest. towards the end of the focus group, and as i was thanking the mothers for their time, the elderly lady looked at me while pointing at the young girl, and said to me, "can you help us with...?" not quite sure what she expected me to do, i looked at the young girl and smiled, and in arabic i said, "salaam alaikum. shu-ismak?" "what's your name?" she looked at me really confused and unengaged, but then said, "halul." halul is the pet's name for the arabic female name, hala, and is only really used to refer to really young girls. at that point i realized that actually hala was probably much older than 13. it turns out hala was a 25-year-old mother to three young children. hala had been a confident, bright, bubbly, loving, caring mother to her children, but the war had changed all of that. she had lived through bombs being dropped in her town; she had lived through explosions. when fighter jets were flying around their building, dropping bombs, her children would be screaming, terrified from the noise. hala would frantically grab pillows and cover her children's ears to block out the noise, all the while screaming herself. when they reached the refugee camp and she knew they were finally in some kind of safety, she completely withdrew to acting like her old childhood self. she completely rejected her family — her children, her husband. hala simply could no longer cope.this is a parenting struggle with a really tough ending, but sadly, it's not uncommon. those who experience armed conflict and displacement will face serious emotional struggles. and that's something we can all relate to. if you have been through a devastating time in your life, if you have lost someone or something you really care about, how would you continue to cope? could you still be able to care for yourself and for your family?given that the first years of a child's life are crucial for healthy physical and emotional development, and that 1.5 billion people are experiencing armed conflict — many of whom are now joining our communities — we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to the needs of those who are experiencing war and displacement. we must prioritize these families' needs — both those who are internally displaced, and those who are refugees worldwide. these needs must be prioritized by ngo workers, policy makers, the who, the unhcr and every single one of us in whatever capacity it is that we function in our society.when we begin to recognize the individual faces of the conflict, when we begin to notice those intricate emotions on their faces, we begin to see them as humans, too. we begin to see the needs of these families, and these are the real human needs. when these family needs are prioritized, interventions for children in humanitarian settings will prioritize and recognize the primary role of the family in supporting children. family mental health will be shouting loud and clear in global, international agenda. and children will be less likely to enter social service systems in resettlement countries because their families would have had support earlier on. and we will be more open-minded, more welcoming, more caring and more trusting to those who are joining our communities.we need to stop wars. we need to build a world where children can dream of planes dropping gifts, and not bombs. until we stop armed conflicts raging throughout the world, families will continue to be displaced, leaving children vulnerable. but by improving parenting and caregiver support, it may be possible to weaken the links between war and psychological difficulties in children and their families.thank you. <title = "How racism harms pregnant women -- and what can help">
<tags = "['activism', 'children', 'communication', 'community', 'family', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'illness', 'inequality', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'parenting', 'pregnancy', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist">
most of you can probably relate to what i'm feeling right now. my heart is racing in my chest. my palms are a little bit clammy. i'm sweating. and my breath is a little bit shallow. now, these familiar sensations are obviously the result of standing up in front of a thousand of you and giving a talk that might be streamed online to perhaps a million more. but the physical sensations i'm experiencing right now are actually the result of a much more basic mind-body mechanism. my nervous system is sending a flood of hormones like cortisol and adrenaline into my bloodstream. it's a very old and very necessary response that sends blood and oxygen to the organs and muscles that i might need to respond quickly to a potential threat.but there's a problem with this response, and that is, it can get over-activated. if i face these kinds of stressors on a daily basis, particularly over an extended period of time, my system can get overloaded. so basically, if this response happens infrequently: super-necessary for my well-being and survival. but if it happens too much, it can actually make me sick.there's a growing body of research examining the relationship between chronic stress and illness. things like heart disease and even cancer are being shown to have a relationship to stress. and that's because, over time, too much activation from stress can interfere with my body's processes that keep me healthy.now, let's imagine for a moment that i was pregnant. what might this kind of stress, particularly over the length of my pregnancy, what kind of impact might that have on the health of my developing fetus? you probably won't be surprised when i tell you that this kind of stress during pregnancy is not good. it can even cause the body to initiate labor too early, because in a basic sense, the stress communicates that the womb is no longer a safe place for the child. stress during pregnancy is linked with things like high blood pressure and low infant birth weight, and it can begin a cascade of health challenges that make birth much more dangerous for both parent and child.now of course stress, particularly in our modern lifestyle, is a somewhat universal experience, right? maybe you've never stood up to give a ted talk, but you've faced a big presentation at work, a sudden job loss, a big test, a heated conflict with a family member or friend. but it turns out that the kind of stress we experience and whether we're able to stay in a relaxed state long enough to keep our bodies working properly depends a lot on who we are. there's also a growing body of research showing that people who experience more discrimination are more likely to have poor health. even the threat of discrimination, like worrying you might be stopped by police while driving your car, can have a negative impact on your health. harvard professor dr. david williams, the person who pioneered the tools that have proven these linkages, says that the more marginalized groups in our society experience more discrimination and more impacts on their health.i've been interested in these issues for over a decade. i became interested in maternal health when a failed premed trajectory instead sent me down a path looking for other ways to help pregnant people. i became a doula, a lay person trained to provide support to people during pregnancy and childbirth. and because i'm latina and a spanish speaker, in my first volunteer doula gig at a public hospital in north carolina, i saw clearly how race and class impacted the experiences of the women that i supported.if we take a look at the statistics about the rates of illness during pregnancy and childbirth, we see clearly the pattern outlined by dr. williams. african-american women in particular have an entirely different experience than white women when it comes to whether their babies are born healthy. in certain parts of the country, particularly the deep south, the rates of mother and infant death for black women actually approximate those rates in sub-saharan african. in those same communities, the rates for white women are near zero.even nationally, black women are four times more likely to die during pregnancy and childbirth than white women. four times more likely to die. they're also twice as likely for their infants to die before the first year of life than white infants, and two to three times more likely to give birth too early or too skinny — a sign of insufficient development. native women are also more likely to have higher rates of these problems than white women, as are some groups of latinas. for the last decade as a doula turned journalist and blogger, i've been trying to raise the alarm about just how different the experiences of women of color, but particularly black women, are when it comes to pregnancy and birth in the us.but when i tell people about these appalling statistics, i'm usually met with an assumption that it's about either poverty or lack of access to care. but it turns out, neither of these things tell the whole story. even middle-class black women still have much worse outcomes than their middle-class white counterparts. the gap actually widens among this group. and while access to care is definitely still a problem, even women of color who receive the recommended prenatal care still suffer from these high rates.and so we come back to the path from discrimination to stress to poor health, and it begins to paint a picture that many people of color know to be true: racism is actually making us sick. still sound like a stretch? consider this: immigrants, particularly black and latina immigrants, actually have better health when they first arrive in the united states. but the longer they stay in this country, the worse their health becomes. people like me, born in the united states to cuban immigrant parents, are actually more likely to have worse health than my grandparents did. it's what researchers call "the immigrant paradox," and it further illustrates that there's something in the us environment that is making us sick.but here's the thing: this problem, that racism is making people of color, but especially black women and babies, sick, is vast. i could spend all of my time with you talking about it, but i won't, because i want to make sure to tell you about one solution. and the good news is, it's a solution that isn't particularly expensive, and doesn't require any fancy drug treatments or new technologies. the solution is called, "the jj way."meet jennie joseph. she's a midwife in the orlando, florida area who has been serving pregnant women for over a decade. in what she calls her easy-access clinics, jennie and her team provide prenatal care to over 600 women per year. her clients, most of whom are black, haitian and latina, deliver at the local hospital. but by providing accessible and respectful prenatal care, jennie has achieved something remarkable: almost all of her clients give birth to healthy, full-term babies.her method is deceptively simple. jennie says that all of her appointments start at the front desk. every member of her team, and every moment a women is at her clinic, is as supportive as possible. no one is turned away due to lack of funds. the jj way is to make the finances work no matter what the hurdles. no one is chastised for showing up late to their appointments. no one is talked down to or belittled. jennie's waiting room feels more like your aunt's living room than a clinic. she calls this space "a classroom in disguise." with the plush chairs arranged in a circle, women wait for their appointments in one-on-one chats with a staff educator, or in group prenatal classes.when you finally are called back to your appointment, you are greeted by alexis or trina, two of jennie's medical assistants. both are young, african-american and moms themselves. their approach is casual and friendly. during one visit i observed, trina chatted with a young soon-to-be mom while she took her blood pressure. this latina mom was having trouble keeping food down due to nausea. as trina deflated the blood pressure cuff, she said, "we'll see about changing your prescription, ok? we can't have you not eating." that "we" is actually a really crucial aspect of jennie's model. she sees her staff as part of a team that, alongside the woman and her family, has one goal: get mom to term with a healthy baby.jennie says that trina and alexis are actually the center of her care model, and that her role as a provider is just to support their work. trina spends a lot of her day on her cell phone, texting with clients about all sorts of things. one woman texted to ask if a medication she was prescribed at the hospital was ok to take while pregnant. the answer was no. another woman texted with pictures of an infant born under jennie's care. lastly, when you finally are called back to see the provider, you've already taken your own weight in the waiting room, and done your own pee test in the bathroom.this is a big departure from the traditional medical model, because it places responsibility and information back in the woman's hands. so rather than a medical setting where you might be chastised for not keeping up with provider recommendations — the kind of settings often available to low-income women — jennie's model is to be as supportive as possible. and that support provides a crucial buffer to the stress of racism and discrimination facing these women every day.but here's the best thing about jennie's model: it's been incredibly successful. remember those statistics i told you, that black women are more likely to give birth too early, to give birth to low birth weight babies, to even die due to complications of pregnancy and childbirth? well, the jj way has almost entirely eliminated those problems, starting with what jennie calls "skinny babies." she's been able to get almost all her clients to term with healthy, chunky babies like this one.audience: aw!miriam zoila pérez: this is a baby girl born to a client of jennie's this past june.a similar demographic of women in jennie's area who gave birth at the same hospital her clients did were three times more likely to give birth to a baby below a healthy weight. jennie is making headway into what has been seen for decades as an almost intractable problem. some of you might be thinking, all this one-on-one attention that the jj way requires must be too expensive to scale. well, you'd be wrong. the visit with the provider is not the center of jennie's model, and for good reason. those visits are expensive, and in order to maintain her model, she's got to see a lot of clients to cover costs. but jennie doesn't have to spend a ton of time with each woman, if all of the members of her team can provide the support, information and care that her clients need. the beauty of jennie's model is that she actually believes it can be implemented in pretty much any health care setting. it's a revolution in care just waiting to happen.these problems i've been sharing with you are big. they come from long histories of racism, classism, a society based on race and class stratification. they involve elaborate physiological mechanisms meant to protect us, that, when overstimulated, actually make us sick. but if there's one thing i've learned from my work as a doula, it's that a little bit of unconditional support can go a really long way. history has shown that people are incredibly resilient, and while we can't eradicate racism or the stress that results from it overnight, we might just be able to create environments that provide a buffer to what people of color experience on a daily basis. and during pregnancy, that buffer can be an incredible tool towards shifting the impact of racism for generations to come.thank you. <title = "An electrifying acoustic guitar performance">
<tags = "['guitar', 'live music', 'music', 'performance']">
<occupation = "Guitar duo">
(guitar music starts)(cheers)(cheers)(music ends)<title = "How to practice safe sexting">
<tags = "['media', 'privacy', 'sex', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Communications researcher">
people have been using media to talk about sex for a long time. love letters, phone sex, racy polaroids. there's even a story of a girl who eloped with a man that she met over the telegraph in 1886. today we have sexting, and i am a sexting expert. not an expert sexter. though, i do know what this means — i think you do too.[it's a penis] i have been studying sexting since the media attention to it began in 2008. i wrote a book on the moral panic about sexting. and here's what i found: most people are worrying about the wrong thing. they're trying to just prevent sexting from happening entirely. but let me ask you this: as long as it's completely consensual, what's the problem with sexting? people are into all sorts of things that you may not be into, like blue cheese or cilantro. sexting is certainly risky, like anything that's fun, but as long as you're not sending an image to someone who doesn't want to receive it, there's no harm. what i do think is a serious problem is when people share private images of others without their permission. and instead of worrying about sexting, what i think we need to do is think a lot more about digital privacy.the key is consent. right now most people are thinking about sexting without really thinking about consent at all. did you know that we currently criminalize teen sexting? it can be a crime because it counts as child pornography, if there's an image of someone under 18, and it doesn't even matter if they took that image of themselves and shared it willingly. so we end up with this bizarre legal situation where two 17-year-olds can legally have sex in most us states but they can't photograph it. some states have also tried passing sexting misdemeanor laws but these laws repeat the same problem because they still make consensual sexting illegal. it doesn't make sense to try to ban all sexting to try to address privacy violations. this is kind of like saying, let's solve the problem of date rape by just making dating completely illegal. most teens don't get arrested for sexting, but can you guess who does? it's often teens who are disliked by their partner's parents. and this can be because of class bias, racism or homophobia. most prosecutors are, of course, smart enough not to use child pornography charges against teenagers, but some do.according to researchers at the university of new hampshire seven percent of all child pornography possession arrests are teens, sexting consensually with other teens. child pornography is a serious crime, but it's just not the same thing as teen sexting. parents and educators are also responding to sexting without really thinking too much about consent. their message to teens is often: just don't do it.and i totally get it — there are serious legal risks and of course, that potential for privacy violations. and when you were a teen, i'm sure you did exactly as you were told, right?you're probably thinking, my kid would never sext. and that's true, your little angel may not be sexting because only 33 percent of 16- and 17-year-olds are sexting. but, sorry, by the time they're older, odds are they will be sexting. every study i've seen puts the rate above 50 percent for 18- to 24-year-olds. and most of the time, nothing goes wrong. people ask me all the time things like, isn't sexting just so dangerous, though? it's like you wouldn't leave your wallet on a park bench and you expect it's going to get stolen if you do that, right? here's how i think about it: sexting is like leaving your wallet at your boyfriend's house. if you come back the next day and all the money is just gone, you really need to dump that guy.  so instead of criminalizing sexting to try to prevent these privacy violations, instead we need to make consent central to how we think about the circulation of our private information.every new media technology raises privacy concerns. in fact, in the us the very first major debates about privacy were in response to technologies that were relatively new at the time. in the late 1800s, people were worried about cameras, which were just suddenly more portable than ever before, and newspaper gossip columns. they were worried that the camera would capture information about them, take it out of context and widely disseminate it. does this sound familiar? it's exactly what we're worrying about now with social media and drone cameras, and, of course, sexting. and these fears about technology, they make sense because technologies can amplify and bring out our worst qualities and behaviors. but there are solutions. and we've been here before with a dangerous new technology.in 1908, ford introduced the model t car. traffic fatality rates were rising. it was a serious problem — it looks so safe, right? our first response was to try to change drivers' behavior, so we developed speed limits and enforced them through fines. but over the following decades, we started to realize the technology of the car itself is not just neutral. we could design the car to make it safer. so in the 1920s, we got shatter-resistant windshields. in the 1950s, seat belts. and in the 1990s, airbags. all three of these areas: laws, individuals and industry came together over time to help solve the problem that a new technology causes. and we can do the same thing with digital privacy. of course, it comes back to consent. here's the idea. before anyone can distribute your private information, they should have to get your permission. this idea of affirmative consent comes from anti-rape activists who tell us that we need consent for every sexual act. and we have really high standards for consent in a lot of other areas.think about having surgery. your doctor has to make sure that you are meaningfully and knowingly consenting to that medical procedure. this is not the type of consent like with an itunes terms of service where you just scroll to the bottom and you're like, agree, agree, whatever. if we think more about consent, we can have better privacy laws. right now, we just don't have that many protections. if your ex-husband or your ex-wife is a terrible person, they can take your nude photos and upload them to a porn site. it can be really hard to get those images taken down. and in a lot of states, you're actually better off if you took the images of yourself because then you can file a copyright claim. right now, if someone violates your privacy, whether that's an individual or a company or the nsa, you can try filing a lawsuit, though you may not be successful because many courts assume that digital privacy is just impossible. so they're not willing to punish anyone for violating it. i still hear people asking me all the time, isn't a digital image somehow blurring the line between public and private because it's digital, right? no! no! everything digital is not just automatically public. that doesn't make any sense.as nyu legal scholar helen nissenbaum tells us, we have laws and policies and norms that protect all kinds of information that's private, and it doesn't make a difference if it's digital or not. all of your health records are digitized but your doctor can't just share them with anyone. all of your financial information is held in digital databases, but your credit card company can't just post your purchase history online. better laws could help address privacy violations after they happen, but one of the easiest things we can all do is make personal changes to help protect each other's privacy. we're always told that privacy is our own, sole, individual responsibility. we're told, constantly monitor and update your privacy settings. we're told, never share anything you wouldn't want the entire world to see. this doesn't make sense. digital media are social environments and we share things with people we trust all day, every day.as princeton researcher janet vertesi argues, our data and our privacy, they're not just personal, they're actually interpersonal. and so one thing you can do that's really easy is just start asking for permission before you share anyone else's information. if you want to post a photo of someone online, ask for permission. if you want to forward an email thread, ask for permission. and if you want to share someone's nude selfie, obviously, ask for permission.these individual changes can really help us protect each other's privacy, but we need technology companies on board as well. these companies have very little incentive to help protect our privacy because their business models depend on us sharing everything with as many people as possible. right now, if i send you an image, you can forward that to anyone that you want. but what if i got to decide if that image was forwardable or not? this would tell you, you don't have my permission to send this image out. we do this kind of thing all the time to protect copyright. if you buy an e-book, you can't just send it out to as many people as you want. so why not try this with mobile phones? what you can do is we can demand that tech companies add these protections to our devices and our platforms as the default. after all, you can choose the color of your car, but the airbags are always standard.if we don't think more about digital privacy and consent, there can be serious consequences. there was a teenager from ohio — let's call her jennifer, for the sake of her privacy. she shared nude photos of herself with her high school boyfriend, thinking she could trust him. unfortunately, he betrayed her and sent her photos around the entire school. jennifer was embarrassed and humiliated, but instead of being compassionate, her classmates harassed her. they called her a slut and a whore and they made her life miserable. jennifer started missing school and her grades dropped. ultimately, jennifer decided to end her own life.jennifer did nothing wrong. all she did was share a nude photo with someone she thought that she could trust. and yet our laws tell her that she committed a horrible crime equivalent to child pornography. our gender norms tell her that by producing this nude image of herself, she somehow did the most horrible, shameful thing. and when we assume that privacy is impossible in digital media, we completely write off and excuse her boyfriend's bad, bad behavior. people are still saying all the time to victims of privacy violations, "what were you thinking? you should have never sent that image."if you're trying to figure out what to say instead, try this. imagine you've run into your friend who broke their leg skiing. they took a risk to do something fun, and it didn't end well. but you're probably not going to be the jerk who says, "well, i guess you shouldn't have gone skiing then." if we think more about consent, we can see that victims of privacy violations deserve our compassion, not criminalization, shaming, harassment or punishment. we can support victims, and we can prevent some privacy violations by making these legal, individual and technological changes. because the problem is not sexting, the issue is digital privacy. and one solution is consent.so the next time a victim of a privacy violation comes up to you, instead of blaming them, let's do this instead: let's shift our ideas about digital privacy, and let's respond with compassion.thank you. <title = "3 ways to fix a broken news industry">
<tags = "['Internet', 'Middle East', 'Syria', 'TEDNYC', 'communication', 'community', 'ebola', 'entrepreneur', 'global issues', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'iraq', 'journalism', 'news', 'oceans', 'refugees', 'society', 'women', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Journalist">
five years ago, i had my dream job. i was a foreign correspondent in the middle east reporting for abc news. but there was a crack in the wall, a problem with our industry, that i felt we needed to fix. you see, i got to the middle east right around the end of 2007, which was just around the midpoint of the iraq war. but by the time i got there, it was already nearly impossible to find stories about iraq on air. coverage had dropped across the board, across networks. and of the stories that did make it, more than 80 percent of them were about us. we were missing the stories about iraq, the people who live there, and what was happening to them under the weight of the war.afghanistan had already fallen off the agenda. there were less than one percent of all news stories in 2008 that went to the war in afghanistan. it was the longest war in us history, but information was so scarce that schoolteachers we spoke to told us they had trouble explaining to their students what we were doing there, when those students had parents who were fighting and sometimes dying overseas.we had drawn a blank, and it wasn't just iraq and afghanistan. from conflict zones to climate change to all sorts of issues around crises in public health, we were missing what i call the species-level issues, because as a species, they could actually sink us. and by failing to understand the complex issues of our time, we were facing certain practical implications. how were we going to solve problems that we didn't fundamentally understand, that we couldn't track in real time, and where the people working on the issues were invisible to us and sometimes invisible to each other?when you look back on iraq, those years when we were missing the story, were the years when the society was falling apart, when we were setting the conditions for what would become the rise of isis, the isis takeover of mosul and terrorist violence that would spread beyond iraq's borders to the rest of the world.just around that time where i was making that observation, i looked across the border of iraq and noticed there was another story we were missing: the war in syria. if you were a middle-east specialist, you knew that syria was that important from the start. but it ended up being, really, one of the forgotten stories of the arab spring. i saw the implications up front. syria is intimately tied to regional security, to global stability. i felt like we couldn't let that become another one of the stories we left behind.so i left my big tv job to start a website, called "syria deeply." it was designed to be a news and information source that made it easier to understand a complex issue, and for the past four years, it's been a resource for policymakers and professionals working on the conflict in syria. we built a business model based on consistent, high-quality information, and convening the top minds on the issue. and we found it was a model that scaled. we got passionate requests to do other things "deeply." so we started to work our way down the list.i'm just one of many entrepreneurs, and we are just one of many start-ups trying to fix what's wrong with news. all of us in the trenches know that something is wrong with the news industry. it's broken. trust in the media has hit an all-time low. and the statistic you're seeing up there is from september — it's arguably gotten worse. but we can fix this. we can fix the news. i know that that's true. you can call me an idealist; i call myself an industrious optimist. and i know there are a lot of us out there. we have ideas for how to make things better, and i want to share three of them that we've picked up in our own work.idea number one: we need news that's built on deep-domain knowledge. given the waves and waves of layoffs at newsrooms across the country, we've lost the art of specialization. beat reporting is an endangered thing. when it comes to foreign news, the way we can fix that is by working with more local journalists, treating them like our partners and collaborators, not just fixers who fetch us phone numbers and sound bites. our local reporters in syria and across africa and across asia bring us stories that we certainly would not have found on our own. like this one from the suburbs of damascus, about a wheelchair race that gave hope to those wounded in the war. or this one from sierra leone, about a local chief who curbed the spread of ebola by self-organizing a quarantine in his district. or this one from the border of pakistan, about afghan refugees being forced to return home before they are ready, under the threat of police intimidation. our local journalists are our mentors. they teach us something new every day, and they bring us stories that are important for all of us to know.idea number two: we need a kind of hippocratic oath for the news industry, a pledge to first do no harm. journalists need to be tough. we need to speak truth to power, but we also need to be responsible. we need to live up to our own ideals, and we need to recognize when what we're doing could potentially harm society, where we lose track of journalism as a public service.i watched us cover the ebola crisis. we launched ebola deeply. we did our best. but what we saw was a public that was flooded with hysterical and sensational coverage, sometimes inaccurate, sometimes completely wrong. public health experts tell me that that actually cost us in human lives, because by sparking more panic and by sometimes getting the facts wrong, we made it harder for people to resolve what was actually happening on the ground. all that noise made it harder to make the right decisions.we can do better as an industry, but it requires us recognizing how we got it wrong last time, and deciding not to go that way next time. it's a choice. we have to resist the temptation to use fear for ratings. and that decision has to be made in the individual newsroom and with the individual news executive. because the next deadly virus that comes around could be much worse and the consequences much higher, if we do what we did last time; if our reporting isn't responsible and it isn't right.the third idea? we need to embrace complexity if we want to make sense of a complex world. embrace complexity — not treat the world simplistically, because simple isn't accurate. we live in a complex world. news is adult education. it's our job as journalists to get elbow deep in complexity and to find new ways to make it easier for everyone else to understand. if we don't do that, if we pretend there are just simple answers, we're leading everyone off a steep cliff. understanding complexity is the only way to know the real threats that are around the corner. it's our responsibility to translate those threats and to help you understand what's real, so you can be prepared and know what it takes to be ready for what comes next.i am an industrious optimist. i do believe we can fix what's broken. we all want to. there are great journalists out there doing great work — we just need new formats. i honestly believe this is a time of reawakening, reimagining what we can do. i believe we can fix what's broken. i know we can fix the news. i know it's worth trying, and i truly believe that in the end, we're going to get this right.thank you. <title = "How jails extort the poor">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'corruption', 'crime', 'government', 'poverty', 'prison', 'terrorism']">
<occupation = "Legal activist">
one summer afternoon in 2013, dc police detained, questioned and searched a man who appeared suspicious and potentially dangerous. this wasn't what i was wearing the day of the detention, to be fair, but i have a picture of that as well. i know it's very frightening — try to remain calm. at this time, i was interning at the public defender service in washington dc, and i was visiting a police station for work. i was on my way out, and before i could make it to my car, two police cars pulled up to block my exit, and an officer approached me from behind. he told me to stop, take my backpack off and put my hands on the police car parked next to us. about a dozen officers then gathered near us. all of them had handguns, some had assault rifles. they rifled through my backpack. they patted me down. they took pictures of me spread on the police car, and they laughed.and as all this was happening — as i was on the police car trying to ignore the shaking in my legs, trying to think clearly about what i should do — something stuck out to me as odd. when i look at myself in this photo, if i were to describe myself, i think i'd say something like, "19-year-old indian male, bright t-shirt, wearing glasses." but they weren't including any of these details. into their police radios as they described me, they kept saying, "middle eastern male with a backpack. middle eastern male with a backpack." and this description carried on into their police reports. i never expected to be described by my own government in these terms: "lurking," "nefarious," "terrorist." and the detention dragged on like this.they sent dogs trained to smell explosives to sweep the area i'd been in. they called the federal government to see if i was on any watch lists. they sent a couple of detectives to cross-examine me on why, if i claimed i had nothing to hide, i wouldn't consent to a search of my car. and i could see they weren't happy with me, but i felt i had no way of knowing what they'd want to do next. at one point, the officer who patted me down scanned the side of the police station to see where the security camera was to see how much of this was being recorded. and when he did that, it really sank in how completely i was at their mercy.i think we're all normalized from a young age to the idea of police officers and arrests and handcuffs, so it's easy to forget how demeaning and coercive a thing it is to seize control over another person's body. i know it sounds like the point of my story is how badly treated i was because of my race — and yes, i don't think i would've been detained if i were white. but actually, what i have in mind today is something else. what i have in mind is how much worse things might've been if i weren't affluent. i mean, they thought i might be trying to plant an explosive, and they investigated that possibility for an hour and a half, but i was never put in handcuffs, i was never taken to a jail cell. i think if i were from one of washington dc's poor communities of color, and they thought i was endangering officers' lives, things might've ended differently. and in fact, in our system, i think it's better to be an affluent person suspected of trying to blow up a police station than it is to be a poor person who's suspected of much, much less than this.i want to give you an example from my current work. right now, i'm working at a civil rights organization in dc, called equal justice under law. let me start by asking you all a question. how many of you have ever gotten a parking ticket in your life? raise your hand. yeah. so have i. and when i had to pay it, it felt annoying and it felt bad, but i paid it and i moved on. i'm guessing most of you have paid your tickets as well. but what would happen if you couldn't afford the amount on the ticket and your family doesn't have the money either, what happens then?well, one thing that's not supposed to happen under the law is, you're not supposed to be arrested and jailed simply because you can't afford to pay. that's illegal under federal law. but that's what local governments across the country are doing to people who are poor. and so many of our lawsuits at equal justice under law target these modern-day debtors' prisons.one of our cases is against ferguson, missouri. and i know when i say ferguson, many of you will think of police violence. but today i want to talk about a different aspect of the relationship between their police force and their citizens. ferguson was issuing an average of over two arrest warrants, per person, per year, mostly for unpaid debt to the courts. when i imagine what that would feel like if, every time i left my house, there was a chance a police officer would run my license plate, see a warrant for unpaid debt, seize my body they way the did in dc and then take me to a jail cell, i feel a little sick.i've met many of the people in ferguson who have experienced this, and i've heard some of their stories. in ferguson's jail, in each small cell, there's a bunk bed and a toilet, but they'd pack four people into each cell. so there'd be two people on the bunks and two people on the floor, one with nowhere to go except right next to the filthy toilet, which was never cleaned. in fact, the whole cell was never cleaned, so the floor and the walls were lined with blood and mucus. no water to drink, except coming out of a spigot connected to the toilet. the water looked and tasted dirty, there was never enough food, never any showers, women menstruating without any hygiene products, no medical attention whatsoever. when i asked a woman about medical attention, she laughed, and she said, "oh, no, no. the only attention you get from the guards in there is sexual."so, they'd take the debtors to this place and they'd say, "we're not letting you leave until you make a payment on your debt." and if you could — if you could call a family member who could somehow come up with some money, then maybe you were out. if it was enough money, you were out. but if it wasn't, you'd stay there for days or weeks, and every day the guards would come down to the cells and haggle with the debtors about the price of release that day. you'd stay until, at some point, the jail would be booked to capacity, and they'd want to book someone new in. and at that point, they'd think, "ok, it's unlikely this person can come up with the money, it's more likely this new person will." you're out, they're in, and the machine kept moving like that.i met a man who, nine years ago, was arrested for panhandling in a walgreens. he couldn't afford his fines and his court fees from that case. when he was young he survived a house fire, only because he jumped out of the third-story window to escape. but that fall left him with damage to his brain and several parts of this body, including his leg. so he can't work, and he relies on social security payments to survive. when i met him in his apartment, he had nothing of value there — not even food in his fridge. he's chronically hungry. he had nothing of value in his apartment except a small piece of cardboard on which he'd written the names of his children. he cherished this a lot. he was happy to show it to me. but he can't pay his fines and fees because he has nothing to give. in the last nine years, he's been arrested 13 times, and jailed for a total of 130 days on that panhandling case. one of those stretches lasted 45 days. just imagine spending from right now until sometime in june in the place that i described to you a few moments ago.he told me about all the suicide attempts he's seen in ferguson's jail; about the time a man found a way to hang himself out of reach of the other inmates, so all they could do was yell and yell and yell, trying to get the guards' attention so they could come down and cut him down. and he told me that it took the guards over five minutes to respond, and when they came, the man was unconscious. so they called the paramedics and the paramedics went to the cell. they said, "he'll be ok," so they just left him there on the floor. i heard many stories like this and they shouldn't have surprised me, because suicide is the single leading cause of death in our local jails. this is related to the lack of mental health care in our jails.i met a woman, single mother of three, making seven dollars an hour. she relies on food stamps to feed herself and her children. about a decade ago, she got a couple of traffic tickets and a minor theft charge, and she can't afford her fines and fees on those cases. since then, she's been jailed about 10 times on those cases, but she has schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, and she needs medication every day. she doesn't have access to those medications in ferguson's jail, because no one has access to their medications. she told me about what it was like to spend two weeks in a cage, hallucinating people and shadows and hearing voices, begging for the medication that would make it all stop, only to be ignored. and this isn't anomalous, either: thirty percent of women in our local jails have serious mental health needs just like hers, but only one in six receives any mental health care while in jail.and so, i heard all these stories about this grotesque dungeon that ferguson was operating for its debtors, and when it came time for me to actually see it and to go visit ferguson's jail, i'm not sure what i was expecting to see, but i wasn't expecting this. it's an ordinary government building. it could be a post office or a school. it reminded me that these illegal extortion schemes aren't being run somewhere in the shadows, they're being run out in the open by our public officials. they're a matter of public policy. and this reminded me that poverty jailing in general, even outside the debtors' prison context, plays a very visible and central role in our justice system.what i have in mind is our policy of bail. in our system, whether you're detained or free, pending trial is not a matter of how dangerous you are or how much of a flight risk you pose. it's a matter of whether you can afford to post your bail amount. so bill cosby, whose bail was set at a million dollars, immediately writes the check, and doesn't spend a second in a jail cell. but sandra bland, who died in jail, was only there because her family was unable to come up with 500 dollars. in fact, there are half a million sandra blands across the country — 500,000 people who are in jail right now, only because they can't afford their bail amount.we're told that our jails are places for criminals, but statistically that's not the case: three out of every five people in jail right now are there pretrial. they haven't been convicted of any crime; they haven't pled guilty to any offense. right here in san francisco, 85 percent of the inmates in our jail in san francisco are pretrial detainees. this means san francisco is spending something like 80 million dollars every year to fund pretrial detention.many of these people who are in jail only because they can't post bail are facing allegations so minor that the amount of time it would take for them to sit waiting for trial is longer than the sentence they would receive if convicted, which means they're guaranteed to get out faster if they just plead guilty. so now the choice is: should i stay here in this horrible place, away from my family and my dependents, almost guaranteed to lose my job, and then fight the charges? or should i just plead guilty to whatever the prosecutor wants and get out? and at this point, they're pretrial detainees, not criminals. but once they take that plea deal, we'll call them criminals, even though an affluent person would never have been in this situation, because an affluent person would have simply been bailed out.at this point you might be wondering, "this guy's in the inspiration section, what is he doing — "this is extremely depressing. i want my money back." but in actuality, i find talking about jailing much less depressing than the alternative, because i think if we don't talk about these issues and collectively change how we think about jailing, at the end of all of our lives, we'll still have jails full of poor people who don't belong there. that really is depressing to me. but what's exciting to me is the thought that these stories can move us to think about jailing in different terms. not in sterile policy terms like "mass incarceration," or "sentencing of nonviolent offenders," but in human terms.when we put a human being in a cage for days or weeks or months or even years, what are we doing to that person's mind and body? under what conditions are we really willing to do that? and so if starting with a few hundred of us in this room, we can commit to thinking about jailing in this different light, then we can undo that normalization i was referring to earlier.if i leave you with anything today, i hope it's with the thought that if we want anything to fundamentally change — not just to reform our policies on bail and fines and fees — but also to make sure that whatever new policies replace those don't punish the poor and the marginalized in their own new way. if we want that kind of change, then this shift in thinking is required of each of us.thank you. <title = "Don't fear superintelligent AI">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'brain', 'cognitive science', 'communication', 'computers', 'data', 'design', 'engineering', 'fear', 'future', 'humanity', 'identity', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'invention', 'language', 'machine learning', 'mind', 'philosophy', 'robots', 'science', 'society', 'software', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Scientist, philosopher">
when i was a kid, i was the quintessential nerd. i think some of you were, too. and you, sir, who laughed the loudest, you probably still are. i grew up in a small town in the dusty plains of north texas, the son of a sheriff who was the son of a pastor. getting into trouble was not an option. and so i started reading calculus books for fun. you did, too. that led me to building a laser and a computer and model rockets, and that led me to making rocket fuel in my bedroom. now, in scientific terms, we call this a very bad idea. around that same time, stanley kubrick's "2001: a space odyssey" came to the theaters, and my life was forever changed. i loved everything about that movie, especially the hal 9000. now, hal was a sentient computer designed to guide the discovery spacecraft from the earth to jupiter. hal was also a flawed character, for in the end he chose to value the mission over human life. now, hal was a fictional character, but nonetheless he speaks to our fears, our fears of being subjugated by some unfeeling, artificial intelligence who is indifferent to our humanity.i believe that such fears are unfounded. indeed, we stand at a remarkable time in human history, where, driven by refusal to accept the limits of our bodies and our minds, we are building machines of exquisite, beautiful complexity and grace that will extend the human experience in ways beyond our imagining.after a career that led me from the air force academy to space command to now, i became a systems engineer, and recently i was drawn into an engineering problem associated with nasa's mission to mars. now, in space flights to the moon, we can rely upon mission control in houston to watch over all aspects of a flight. however, mars is 200 times further away, and as a result it takes on average 13 minutes for a signal to travel from the earth to mars. if there's trouble, there's not enough time. and so a reasonable engineering solution calls for us to put mission control inside the walls of the orion spacecraft. another fascinating idea in the mission profile places humanoid robots on the surface of mars before the humans themselves arrive, first to build facilities and later to serve as collaborative members of the science team.now, as i looked at this from an engineering perspective, it became very clear to me that what i needed to architect was a smart, collaborative, socially intelligent artificial intelligence. in other words, i needed to build something very much like a hal but without the homicidal tendencies. let's pause for a moment. is it really possible to build an artificial intelligence like that? actually, it is. in many ways, this is a hard engineering problem with elements of ai, not some wet hair ball of an ai problem that needs to be engineered. to paraphrase alan turing, i'm not interested in building a sentient machine. i'm not building a hal. all i'm after is a simple brain, something that offers the illusion of intelligence.the art and the science of computing have come a long way since hal was onscreen, and i'd imagine if his inventor dr. chandra were here today, he'd have a whole lot of questions for us. is it really possible for us to take a system of millions upon millions of devices, to read in their data streams, to predict their failures and act in advance? yes. can we build systems that converse with humans in natural language? yes. can we build systems that recognize objects, identify emotions, emote themselves, play games and even read lips? yes. can we build a system that sets goals, that carries out plans against those goals and learns along the way? yes. can we build systems that have a theory of mind? this we are learning to do. can we build systems that have an ethical and moral foundation? this we must learn how to do. so let's accept for a moment that it's possible to build such an artificial intelligence for this kind of mission and others.the next question you must ask yourself is, should we fear it? now, every new technology brings with it some measure of trepidation. when we first saw cars, people lamented that we would see the destruction of the family. when we first saw telephones come in, people were worried it would destroy all civil conversation. at a point in time we saw the written word become pervasive, people thought we would lose our ability to memorize. these things are all true to a degree, but it's also the case that these technologies brought to us things that extended the human experience in some profound ways.so let's take this a little further. i do not fear the creation of an ai like this, because it will eventually embody some of our values. consider this: building a cognitive system is fundamentally different than building a traditional software-intensive system of the past. we don't program them. we teach them. in order to teach a system how to recognize flowers, i show it thousands of flowers of the kinds i like. in order to teach a system how to play a game — well, i would. you would, too. i like flowers. come on. to teach a system how to play a game like go, i'd have it play thousands of games of go, but in the process i also teach it how to discern a good game from a bad game. if i want to create an artificially intelligent legal assistant, i will teach it some corpus of law but at the same time i am fusing with it the sense of mercy and justice that is part of that law. in scientific terms, this is what we call ground truth, and here's the important point: in producing these machines, we are therefore teaching them a sense of our values. to that end, i trust an artificial intelligence the same, if not more, as a human who is well-trained.but, you may ask, what about rogue agents, some well-funded nongovernment organization? i do not fear an artificial intelligence in the hand of a lone wolf. clearly, we cannot protect ourselves against all random acts of violence, but the reality is such a system requires substantial training and subtle training far beyond the resources of an individual. and furthermore, it's far more than just injecting an internet virus to the world, where you push a button, all of a sudden it's in a million places and laptops start blowing up all over the place. now, these kinds of substances are much larger, and we'll certainly see them coming.do i fear that such an artificial intelligence might threaten all of humanity? if you look at movies such as "the matrix," "metropolis," "the terminator," shows such as "westworld," they all speak of this kind of fear. indeed, in the book "superintelligence" by the philosopher nick bostrom, he picks up on this theme and observes that a superintelligence might not only be dangerous, it could represent an existential threat to all of humanity. dr. bostrom's basic argument is that such systems will eventually have such an insatiable thirst for information that they will perhaps learn how to learn and eventually discover that they may have goals that are contrary to human needs. dr. bostrom has a number of followers. he is supported by people such as elon musk and stephen hawking. with all due respect to these brilliant minds, i believe that they are fundamentally wrong. now, there are a lot of pieces of dr. bostrom's argument to unpack, and i don't have time to unpack them all, but very briefly, consider this: super knowing is very different than super doing. hal was a threat to the discovery crew only insofar as hal commanded all aspects of the discovery. so it would have to be with a superintelligence. it would have to have dominion over all of our world. this is the stuff of skynet from the movie "the terminator" in which we had a superintelligence that commanded human will, that directed every device that was in every corner of the world. practically speaking, it ain't gonna happen. we are not building ais that control the weather, that direct the tides, that command us capricious, chaotic humans. and furthermore, if such an artificial intelligence existed, it would have to compete with human economies, and thereby compete for resources with us. and in the end — don't tell siri this — we can always unplug them. we are on an incredible journey of coevolution with our machines. the humans we are today are not the humans we will be then. to worry now about the rise of a superintelligence is in many ways a dangerous distraction because the rise of computing itself brings to us a number of human and societal issues to which we must now attend. how shall i best organize society when the need for human labor diminishes? how can i bring understanding and education throughout the globe and still respect our differences? how might i extend and enhance human life through cognitive healthcare? how might i use computing to help take us to the stars?and that's the exciting thing. the opportunities to use computing to advance the human experience are within our reach, here and now, and we are just beginning.thank you very much. <title = "Nationalism vs. globalism: the new political divide">
<tags = "['big problems', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'democracy', 'economics', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'human origins', 'humanity', 'identity', 'intelligence', 'media', 'news', 'politics', 'social change', 'society', 'technology', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Historian">
chris anderson: hello. welcome to this ted dialogues. it's the first of a series that's going to be done in response to the current political upheaval. i don't know about you; i've become quite concerned about the growing divisiveness in this country and in the world. no one's listening to each other. right? they aren't. i mean, it feels like we need a different kind of conversation, one that's based on — i don't know, on reason, listening, on understanding, on a broader context.that's at least what we're going to try in these ted dialogues, starting today. and we couldn't have anyone with us who i'd be more excited to kick this off. this is a mind right here that thinks pretty much like no one else on the planet, i would hasten to say. i'm serious.(yuval noah harari laughs) i'm serious. he synthesizes history with underlying ideas in a way that kind of takes your breath away.so, some of you will know this book, "sapiens." has anyone here read "sapiens"? i mean, i could not put it down. the way that he tells the story of mankind through big ideas that really make you think differently — it's kind of amazing. and here's the follow-up, which i think is being published in the us next week.ynh: yeah, next week.ca: "homo deus." now, this is the history of the next hundred years. i've had a chance to read it. it's extremely dramatic, and i daresay, for some people, quite alarming. it's a must-read. and honestly, we couldn't have someone better to help make sense of what on earth is happening in the world right now. so a warm welcome, please, to yuval noah harari. it's great to be joined by our friends on facebook and around the web. hello, facebook. and all of you, as i start asking questions of yuval, come up with your own questions, and not necessarily about the political scandal du jour, but about the broader understanding of: where are we heading? you ready? ok, we're going to go.so here we are, yuval: new york city, 2017, there's a new president in power, and shock waves rippling around the world. what on earth is happening?ynh: i think the basic thing that happened is that we have lost our story. humans think in stories, and we try to make sense of the world by telling stories. and for the last few decades, we had a very simple and very attractive story about what's happening in the world. and the story said that, oh, what's happening is that the economy is being globalized, politics is being liberalized, and the combination of the two will create paradise on earth, and we just need to keep on globalizing the economy and liberalizing the political system, and everything will be wonderful. and 2016 is the moment when a very large segment, even of the western world, stopped believing in this story. for good or bad reasons — it doesn't matter. people stopped believing in the story, and when you don't have a story, you don't understand what's happening.ca: part of you believes that that story was actually a very effective story. it worked.ynh: to some extent, yes. according to some measurements, we are now in the best time ever for humankind. today, for the first time in history, more people die from eating too much than from eating too little, which is an amazing achievement. also for the first time in history, more people die from old age than from infectious diseases, and violence is also down. for the first time in history, more people commit suicide than are killed by crime and terrorism and war put together. statistically, you are your own worst enemy. at least, of all the people in the world, you are most likely to be killed by yourself — which is, again, very good news, compared — compared to the level of violence that we saw in previous eras.ca: but this process of connecting the world ended up with a large group of people kind of feeling left out, and they've reacted. and so we have this bombshell that's sort of ripping through the whole system. i mean, what do you make of what's happened? it feels like the old way that people thought of politics, the left-right divide, has been blown up and replaced. how should we think of this?ynh: yeah, the old 20th-century political model of left versus right is now largely irrelevant, and the real divide today is between global and national, global or local. and you see it again all over the world that this is now the main struggle. we probably need completely new political models and completely new ways of thinking about politics. in essence, what you can say is that we now have global ecology, we have a global economy but we have national politics, and this doesn't work together. this makes the political system ineffective, because it has no control over the forces that shape our life. and you have basically two solutions to this imbalance: either de-globalize the economy and turn it back into a national economy, or globalize the political system.ca: so some, i guess many liberals out there view trump and his government as kind of irredeemably bad, just awful in every way. do you see any underlying narrative or political philosophy in there that is at least worth understanding? how would you articulate that philosophy? is it just the philosophy of nationalism?ynh: i think the underlying feeling or idea is that the political system — something is broken there. it doesn't empower the ordinary person anymore. it doesn't care so much about the ordinary person anymore, and i think this diagnosis of the political disease is correct. with regard to the answers, i am far less certain.i think what we are seeing is the immediate human reaction: if something doesn't work, let's go back. and you see it all over the world, that people, almost nobody in the political system today, has any future-oriented vision of where humankind is going. almost everywhere, you see retrograde vision: "let's make america great again," like it was great — i don't know — in the '50s, in the '80s, sometime, let's go back there. and you go to russia a hundred years after lenin, putin's vision for the future is basically, ah, let's go back to the tsarist empire. and in israel, where i come from, the hottest political vision of the present is: "let's build the temple again." so let's go back 2,000 years backwards. so people are thinking sometime in the past we've lost it, and sometimes in the past, it's like you've lost your way in the city, and you say ok, let's go back to the point where i felt secure and start again. i don't think this can work, but a lot of people, this is their gut instinct.ca: but why couldn't it work? "america first" is a very appealing slogan in many ways. patriotism is, in many ways, a very noble thing. it's played a role in promoting cooperation among large numbers of people. why couldn't you have a world organized in countries, all of which put themselves first?ynh: for many centuries, even thousands of years, patriotism worked quite well. of course, it led to wars an so forth, but we shouldn't focus too much on the bad. there are also many, many positive things about patriotism, and the ability to have a large number of people care about each other, sympathize with one another, and come together for collective action. if you go back to the first nations, so, thousands of years ago, the people who lived along the yellow river in china — it was many, many different tribes and they all depended on the river for survival and for prosperity, but all of them also suffered from periodical floods and periodical droughts. and no tribe could really do anything about it, because each of them controlled just a tiny section of the river.and then in a long and complicated process, the tribes coalesced together to form the chinese nation, which controlled the entire yellow river and had the ability to bring hundreds of thousands of people together to build dams and canals and regulate the river and prevent the worst floods and droughts and raise the level of prosperity for everybody. and this worked in many places around the world.but in the 21st century, technology is changing all that in a fundamental way. we are now living — all people in the world — are living alongside the same cyber river, and no single nation can regulate this river by itself. we are all living together on a single planet, which is threatened by our own actions. and if you don't have some kind of global cooperation, nationalism is just not on the right level to tackle the problems, whether it's climate change or whether it's technological disruption.ca: so it was a beautiful idea in a world where most of the action, most of the issues, took place on national scale, but your argument is that the issues that matter most today no longer take place on a national scale but on a global scale.ynh: exactly. all the major problems of the world today are global in essence, and they cannot be solved unless through some kind of global cooperation. it's not just climate change, which is, like, the most obvious example people give. i think more in terms of technological disruption. if you think about, for example, artificial intelligence, over the next 20, 30 years pushing hundreds of millions of people out of the job market — this is a problem on a global level. it will disrupt the economy of all the countries.and similarly, if you think about, say, bioengineering and people being afraid of conducting, i don't know, genetic engineering research in humans, it won't help if just a single country, let's say the us, outlaws all genetic experiments in humans, but china or north korea continues to do it. so the us cannot solve it by itself, and very quickly, the pressure on the us to do the same will be immense because we are talking about high-risk, high-gain technologies. if somebody else is doing it, i can't allow myself to remain behind. the only way to have regulations, effective regulations, on things like genetic engineering, is to have global regulations. if you just have national regulations, nobody would like to stay behind.ca: so this is really interesting. it seems to me that this may be one key to provoking at least a constructive conversation between the different sides here, because i think everyone can agree that the start point of a lot of the anger that's propelled us to where we are is because of the legitimate concerns about job loss. work is gone, a traditional way of life has gone, and it's no wonder that people are furious about that. and in general, they have blamed globalism, global elites, for doing this to them without asking their permission, and that seems like a legitimate complaint.but what i hear you saying is that — so a key question is: what is the real cause of job loss, both now and going forward? to the extent that it's about globalism, then the right response, yes, is to shut down borders and keep people out and change trade agreements and so forth. but you're saying, i think, that actually the bigger cause of job loss is not going to be that at all. it's going to originate in technological questions, and we have no chance of solving that unless we operate as a connected world.ynh: yeah, i think that, i don't know about the present, but looking to the future, it's not the mexicans or chinese who will take the jobs from the people in pennsylvania, it's the robots and algorithms. so unless you plan to build a big wall on the border of california — the wall on the border with mexico is going to be very ineffective. and i was struck when i watched the debates before the election, i was struck that certainly trump did not even attempt to frighten people by saying the robots will take your jobs. now even if it's not true, it doesn't matter. it could have been an extremely effective way of frightening people — and galvanizing people: "the robots will take your jobs!" and nobody used that line. and it made me afraid, because it meant that no matter what happens in universities and laboratories, and there, there is already an intense debate about it, but in the mainstream political system and among the general public, people are just unaware that there could be an immense technological disruption — not in 200 years, but in 10, 20, 30 years — and we have to do something about it now, partly because most of what we teach children today in school or in college is going to be completely irrelevant to the job market of 2040, 2050. so it's not something we'll need to think about in 2040. we need to think today what to teach the young people.ca: yeah, no, absolutely. you've often written about moments in history where humankind has ... entered a new era, unintentionally. decisions have been made, technologies have been developed, and suddenly the world has changed, possibly in a way that's worse for everyone. so one of the examples you give in "sapiens" is just the whole agricultural revolution, which, for an actual person tilling the fields, they just picked up a 12-hour backbreaking workday instead of six hours in the jungle and a much more interesting lifestyle. so are we at another possible phase change here, where we kind of sleepwalk into a future that none of us actually wants?ynh: yes, very much so. during the agricultural revolution, what happened is that immense technological and economic revolution empowered the human collective, but when you look at actual individual lives, the life of a tiny elite became much better, and the lives of the majority of people became considerably worse. and this can happen again in the 21st century. no doubt the new technologies will empower the human collective. but we may end up again with a tiny elite reaping all the benefits, taking all the fruits, and the masses of the population finding themselves worse than they were before, certainly much worse than this tiny elite.ca: and those elites might not even be human elites. they might be cyborgs or —ynh: yeah, they could be enhanced super humans. they could be cyborgs. they could be completely nonorganic elites. they could even be non-conscious algorithms. what we see now in the world is authority shifting away from humans to algorithms. more and more decisions — about personal lives, about economic matters, about political matters — are actually being taken by algorithms. if you ask the bank for a loan, chances are your fate is decided by an algorithm, not by a human being. and the general impression is that maybe homo sapiens just lost it.the world is so complicated, there is so much data, things are changing so fast, that this thing that evolved on the african savanna tens of thousands of years ago — to cope with a particular environment, a particular volume of information and data — it just can't handle the realities of the 21st century, and the only thing that may be able to handle it is big-data algorithms. so no wonder more and more authority is shifting from us to the algorithms.ca: so we're in new york city for the first of a series of ted dialogues with yuval harari, and there's a facebook live audience out there. we're excited to have you with us. we'll start coming to some of your questions and questions of people in the room in just a few minutes, so have those coming.yuval, if you're going to make the argument that we need to get past nationalism because of the coming technological ... danger, in a way, presented by so much of what's happening we've got to have a global conversation about this. trouble is, it's hard to get people really believing that, i don't know, ai really is an imminent threat, and so forth. the things that people, some people at least, care about much more immediately, perhaps, is climate change, perhaps other issues like refugees, nuclear weapons, and so forth. would you argue that where we are right now that somehow those issues need to be dialed up? you've talked about climate change, but trump has said he doesn't believe in that. so in a way, your most powerful argument, you can't actually use to make this case.ynh: yeah, i think with climate change, at first sight, it's quite surprising that there is a very close correlation between nationalism and climate change. i mean, almost always, the people who deny climate change are nationalists. and at first sight, you think: why? what's the connection? why don't you have socialists denying climate change? but then, when you think about it, it's obvious — because nationalism has no solution to climate change. if you want to be a nationalist in the 21st century, you have to deny the problem. if you accept the reality of the problem, then you must accept that, yes, there is still room in the world for patriotism, there is still room in the world for having special loyalties and obligations towards your own people, towards your own country. i don't think anybody is really thinking of abolishing that.but in order to confront climate change, we need additional loyalties and commitments to a level beyond the nation. and that should not be impossible, because people can have several layers of loyalty. you can be loyal to your family and to your community and to your nation, so why can't you also be loyal to humankind as a whole? of course, there are occasions when it becomes difficult, what to put first, but, you know, life is difficult. handle it. ca: ok, so i would love to get some questions from the audience here. we've got a microphone here. speak into it, and facebook, get them coming, too.howard morgan: one of the things that has clearly made a huge difference in this country and other countries is the income distribution inequality, the dramatic change in income distribution in the us from what it was 50 years ago, and around the world. is there anything we can do to affect that? because that gets at a lot of the underlying causes.ynh: so far i haven't heard a very good idea about what to do about it, again, partly because most ideas remain on the national level, and the problem is global. i mean, one idea that we hear quite a lot about now is universal basic income. but this is a problem. i mean, i think it's a good start, but it's a problematic idea because it's not clear what "universal" is and it's not clear what "basic" is. most people when they speak about universal basic income, they actually mean national basic income. but the problem is global.let's say that you have ai and 3d printers taking away millions of jobs in bangladesh, from all the people who make my shirts and my shoes. so what's going to happen? the us government will levy taxes on google and apple in california, and use that to pay basic income to unemployed bangladeshis? if you believe that, you can just as well believe that santa claus will come and solve the problem. so unless we have really universal and not national basic income, the deep problems are not going to go away.and also it's not clear what basic is, because what are basic human needs? a thousand years ago, just food and shelter was enough. but today, people will say education is a basic human need, it should be part of the package. but how much? six years? twelve years? phd? similarly, with health care, let's say that in 20, 30, 40 years, you'll have expensive treatments that can extend human life to 120, i don't know. will this be part of the basket of basic income or not? it's a very difficult problem, because in a world where people lose their ability to be employed, the only thing they are going to get is this basic income. so what's part of it is a very, very difficult ethical question.ca: there's a bunch of questions on how the world affords it as well, who pays. there's a question here from facebook from lisa larson: "how does nationalism in the us now compare to that between world war i and world war ii in the last century?"ynh: well the good news, with regard to the dangers of nationalism, we are in a much better position than a century ago. a century ago, 1917, europeans were killing each other by the millions. in 2016, with brexit, as far as i remember, a single person lost their life, an mp who was murdered by some extremist. just a single person. i mean, if brexit was about british independence, this is the most peaceful war of independence in human history. and let's say that scotland will now choose to leave the uk after brexit.so in the 18th century, if scotland wanted — and the scots wanted several times — to break out of the control of london, the reaction of the government in london was to send an army up north to burn down edinburgh and massacre the highland tribes. my guess is that if, in 2018, the scots vote for independence, the london government will not send an army up north to burn down edinburgh. very few people are now willing to kill or be killed for scottish or for british independence. so for all the talk of the rise of nationalism and going back to the 1930s, to the 19th century, in the west at least, the power of national sentiments today is far, far smaller than it was a century ago.ca: although some people now, you hear publicly worrying about whether that might be shifting, that there could actually be outbreaks of violence in the us depending on how things turn out. should we be worried about that, or do you really think things have shifted?ynh: no, we should be worried. we should be aware of two things. first of all, don't be hysterical. we are not back in the first world war yet. but on the other hand, don't be complacent. we reached from 1917 to 2017, not by some divine miracle, but simply by human decisions, and if we now start making the wrong decisions, we could be back in an analogous situation to 1917 in a few years. one of the things i know as a historian is that you should never underestimate human stupidity. it's one of the most powerful forces in history, human stupidity and human violence. humans do such crazy things for no obvious reason, but again, at the same time, another very powerful force in human history is human wisdom. we have both.ca: we have with us here moral psychologist jonathan haidt, who i think has a question.jonathan haidt: thanks, yuval. so you seem to be a fan of global governance, but when you look at the map of the world from transparency international, which rates the level of corruption of political institutions, it's a vast sea of red with little bits of yellow here and there for those with good institutions. so if we were to have some kind of global governance, what makes you think it would end up being more like denmark rather than more like russia or honduras, and aren't there alternatives, such as we did with cfcs? there are ways to solve global problems with national governments. what would world government actually look like, and why do you think it would work?ynh: well, i don't know what it would look like. nobody still has a model for that. the main reason we need it is because many of these issues are lose-lose situations. when you have a win-win situation like trade, both sides can benefit from a trade agreement, then this is something you can work out. without some kind of global government, national governments each have an interest in doing it. but when you have a lose-lose situation like with climate change, it's much more difficult without some overarching authority, real authority.now, how to get there and what would it look like, i don't know. and certainly there is no obvious reason to think that it would look like denmark, or that it would be a democracy. most likely it wouldn't. we don't have workable democratic models for a global government. so maybe it would look more like ancient china than like modern denmark. but still, given the dangers that we are facing, i think the imperative of having some kind of real ability to force through difficult decisions on the global level is more important than almost anything else.ca: there's a question from facebook here, and then we'll get the mic to andrew. so, kat hebron on facebook, calling in from vail: "how would developed nations manage the millions of climate migrants?"ynh: i don't know.ca: that's your answer, kat. ynh: and i don't think that they know either. they'll just deny the problem, maybe.ca: but immigration, generally, is another example of a problem that's very hard to solve on a nation-by-nation basis. one nation can shut its doors, but maybe that stores up problems for the future.ynh: yes, i mean — it's another very good case, especially because it's so much easier to migrate today than it was in the middle ages or in ancient times.ca: yuval, there's a belief among many technologists, certainly, that political concerns are kind of overblown, that actually, political leaders don't have that much influence in the world, that the real determination of humanity at this point is by science, by invention, by companies, by many things other than political leaders, and it's actually very hard for leaders to do much, so we're actually worrying about nothing here.ynh: well, first, it should be emphasized that it's true that political leaders' ability to do good is very limited, but their ability to do harm is unlimited. there is a basic imbalance here. you can still press the button and blow everybody up. you have that kind of ability. but if you want, for example, to reduce inequality, that's very, very difficult. but to start a war, you can still do so very easily. so there is a built-in imbalance in the political system today which is very frustrating, where you cannot do a lot of good but you can still do a lot of harm. and this makes the political system still a very big concern.ca: so as you look at what's happening today, and putting your historian's hat on, do you look back in history at moments when things were going just fine and an individual leader really took the world or their country backwards?ynh: there are quite a few examples, but i should emphasize, it's never an individual leader. i mean, somebody put him there, and somebody allowed him to continue to be there. so it's never really just the fault of a single individual. there are a lot of people behind every such individual.ca: can we have the microphone here, please, to andrew?andrew solomon: you've talked a lot about the global versus the national, but increasingly, it seems to me, the world situation is in the hands of identity groups. we look at people within the united states who have been recruited by isis. we look at these other groups which have formed which go outside of national bounds but still represent significant authorities. how are they to be integrated into the system, and how is a diverse set of identities to be made coherent under either national or global leadership?ynh: well, the problem of such diverse identities is a problem from nationalism as well. nationalism believes in a single, monolithic identity, and exclusive or at least more extreme versions of nationalism believe in an exclusive loyalty to a single identity. and therefore, nationalism has had a lot of problems with people wanting to divide their identities between various groups. so it's not just a problem, say, for a global vision.and i think, again, history shows that you shouldn't necessarily think in such exclusive terms. if you think that there is just a single identity for a person, "i am just x, that's it, i can't be several things, i can be just that," that's the start of the problem. you have religions, you have nations that sometimes demand exclusive loyalty, but it's not the only option. there are many religions and many nations that enable you to have diverse identities at the same time.ca: but is one explanation of what's happened in the last year that a group of people have got fed up with, if you like, the liberal elites, for want of a better term, obsessing over many, many different identities and them feeling, "but what about my identity? i am being completely ignored here. and by the way, i thought i was the majority"? and that that's actually sparked a lot of the anger.ynh: yeah. identity is always problematic, because identity is always based on fictional stories that sooner or later collide with reality. almost all identities, i mean, beyond the level of the basic community of a few dozen people, are based on a fictional story. they are not the truth. they are not the reality. it's just a story that people invent and tell one another and start believing. and therefore all identities are extremely unstable. they are not a biological reality. sometimes nationalists, for example, think that the nation is a biological entity. it's made of the combination of soil and blood, creates the nation. but this is just a fictional story.ca: soil and blood kind of makes a gooey mess. ynh: it does, and also it messes with your mind when you think too much that i am a combination of soil and blood. if you look from a biological perspective, obviously none of the nations that exist today existed 5,000 years ago. homo sapiens is a social animal, that's for sure. but for millions of years, homo sapiens and our hominid ancestors lived in small communities of a few dozen individuals. everybody knew everybody else. whereas modern nations are imagined communities, in the sense that i don't even know all these people. i come from a relatively small nation, israel, and of eight million israelis, i never met most of them. i will never meet most of them. they basically exist here.ca: but in terms of this identity, this group who feel left out and perhaps have work taken away, i mean, in "homo deus," you actually speak of this group in one sense expanding, that so many people may have their jobs taken away by technology in some way that we could end up with a really large — i think you call it a "useless class" — a class where traditionally, as viewed by the economy, these people have no use.ynh: yes.ca: how likely a possibility is that? is that something we should be terrified about? and can we address it in any way?ynh: we should think about it very carefully. i mean, nobody really knows what the job market will look like in 2040, 2050. there is a chance many new jobs will appear, but it's not certain. and even if new jobs do appear, it won't necessarily be easy for a 50-year old unemployed truck driver made unemployed by self-driving vehicles, it won't be easy for an unemployed truck driver to reinvent himself or herself as a designer of virtual worlds.previously, if you look at the trajectory of the industrial revolution, when machines replaced humans in one type of work, the solution usually came from low-skill work in new lines of business. so you didn't need any more agricultural workers, so people moved to working in low-skill industrial jobs, and when this was taken away by more and more machines, people moved to low-skill service jobs. now, when people say there will be new jobs in the future, that humans can do better than ai, that humans can do better than robots, they usually think about high-skill jobs, like software engineers designing virtual worlds. now, i don't see how an unemployed cashier from wal-mart reinvents herself or himself at 50 as a designer of virtual worlds, and certainly i don't see how the millions of unemployed bangladeshi textile workers will be able to do that. i mean, if they are going to do it, we need to start teaching the bangladeshis today how to be software designers, and we are not doing it. so what will they do in 20 years?ca: so it feels like you're really highlighting a question that's really been bugging me the last few months more and more. it's almost a hard question to ask in public, but if any mind has some wisdom to offer in it, maybe it's yours, so i'm going to ask you: what are humans for?ynh: as far as we know, for nothing. i mean, there is no great cosmic drama, some great cosmic plan, that we have a role to play in. and we just need to discover what our role is and then play it to the best of our ability. this has been the story of all religions and ideologies and so forth, but as a scientist, the best i can say is this is not true. there is no universal drama with a role in it for homo sapiens. so —ca: i'm going to push back on you just for a minute, just from your own book, because in "homo deus," you give really one of the most coherent and understandable accounts about sentience, about consciousness, and that unique sort of human skill. you point out that it's different from intelligence, the intelligence that we're building in machines, and that there's actually a lot of mystery around it. how can you be sure there's no purpose when we don't even understand what this sentience thing is? i mean, in your own thinking, isn't there a chance that what humans are for is to be the universe's sentient things, to be the centers of joy and love and happiness and hope? and maybe we can build machines that actually help amplify that, even if they're not going to become sentient themselves? is that crazy? i kind of found myself hoping that, reading your book.ynh: well, i certainly think that the most interesting question today in science is the question of consciousness and the mind. we are getting better and better in understanding the brain and intelligence, but we are not getting much better in understanding the mind and consciousness. people often confuse intelligence and consciousness, especially in places like silicon valley, which is understandable, because in humans, they go together. i mean, intelligence basically is the ability to solve problems. consciousness is the ability to feel things, to feel joy and sadness and boredom and pain and so forth. in homo sapiens and all other mammals as well — it's not unique to humans — in all mammals and birds and some other animals, intelligence and consciousness go together. we often solve problems by feeling things. so we tend to confuse them. but they are different things.what's happening today in places like silicon valley is that we are creating artificial intelligence but not artificial consciousness. there has been an amazing development in computer intelligence over the last 50 years, and exactly zero development in computer consciousness, and there is no indication that computers are going to become conscious anytime soon.so first of all, if there is some cosmic role for consciousness, it's not unique to homo sapiens. cows are conscious, pigs are conscious, chimpanzees are conscious, chickens are conscious, so if we go that way, first of all, we need to broaden our horizons and remember very clearly we are not the only sentient beings on earth, and when it comes to sentience — when it comes to intelligence, there is good reason to think we are the most intelligent of the whole bunch.but when it comes to sentience, to say that humans are more sentient than whales, or more sentient than baboons or more sentient than cats, i see no evidence for that. so first step is, you go in that direction, expand. and then the second question of what is it for, i would reverse it and i would say that i don't think sentience is for anything. i think we don't need to find our role in the universe. the really important thing is to liberate ourselves from suffering. what characterizes sentient beings in contrast to robots, to stones, to whatever, is that sentient beings suffer, can suffer, and what they should focus on is not finding their place in some mysterious cosmic drama. they should focus on understanding what suffering is, what causes it and how to be liberated from it.ca: i know this is a big issue for you, and that was very eloquent. we're going to have a blizzard of questions from the audience here, and maybe from facebook as well, and maybe some comments as well. so let's go quick. there's one right here. keep your hands held up at the back if you want the mic, and we'll get it back to you.question: in your work, you talk a lot about the fictional stories that we accept as truth, and we live our lives by it. as an individual, knowing that, how does it impact the stories that you choose to live your life, and do you confuse them with the truth, like all of us?ynh: i try not to. i mean, for me, maybe the most important question, both as a scientist and as a person, is how to tell the difference between fiction and reality, because reality is there. i'm not saying that everything is fiction. it's just very difficult for human beings to tell the difference between fiction and reality, and it has become more and more difficult as history progressed, because the fictions that we have created — nations and gods and money and corporations — they now control the world. so just to even think, "oh, this is just all fictional entities that we've created," is very difficult. but reality is there.for me the best ... there are several tests to tell the difference between fiction and reality. the simplest one, the best one that i can say in short, is the test of suffering. if it can suffer, it's real. if it can't suffer, it's not real. a nation cannot suffer. that's very, very clear. even if a nation loses a war, we say, "germany suffered a defeat in the first world war," it's a metaphor. germany cannot suffer. germany has no mind. germany has no consciousness. germans can suffer, yes, but germany cannot. similarly, when a bank goes bust, the bank cannot suffer. when the dollar loses its value, the dollar doesn't suffer. people can suffer. animals can suffer. this is real. so i would start, if you really want to see reality, i would go through the door of suffering. if you can really understand what suffering is, this will give you also the key to understand what reality is.ca: there's a facebook question here that connects to this, from someone around the world in a language that i cannot read.ynh: oh, it's hebrew. ca: hebrew. there you go. can you read the name?ynh: or lauterbach goren.ca: well, thank you for writing in. the question is: "is the post-truth era really a brand-new era, or just another climax or moment in a never-ending trend?ynh: personally, i don't connect with this idea of post-truth. my basic reaction as a historian is: if this is the era of post-truth, when the hell was the era of truth?ca: right. ynh: was it the 1980s, the 1950s, the middle ages? i mean, we have always lived in an era, in a way, of post-truth.ca: but i'd push back on that, because i think what people are talking about is that there was a world where you had fewer journalistic outlets, where there were traditions, that things were fact-checked. it was incorporated into the charter of those organizations that the truth mattered. so if you believe in a reality, then what you write is information. there was a belief that that information should connect to reality in a real way, and if you wrote a headline, it was a serious, earnest attempt to reflect something that had actually happened. and people didn't always get it right.but i think the concern now is you've got a technological system that's incredibly powerful that, for a while at least, massively amplified anything with no attention paid to whether it connected to reality, only to whether it connected to clicks and attention, and that that was arguably toxic. that's a reasonable concern, isn't it?ynh: yeah, it is. i mean, the technology changes, and it's now easier to disseminate both truth and fiction and falsehood. it goes both ways. it's also much easier, though, to spread the truth than it was ever before. but i don't think there is anything essentially new about this disseminating fictions and errors. there is nothing that — i don't know — joseph goebbels, didn't know about all this idea of fake news and post-truth. he famously said that if you repeat a lie often enough, people will think it's the truth, and the bigger the lie, the better, because people won't even think that something so big can be a lie. i think that fake news has been with us for thousands of years. just think of the bible. ca: but there is a concern that the fake news is associated with tyrannical regimes, and when you see an uprise in fake news that is a canary in the coal mine that there may be dark times coming.ynh: yeah. i mean, the intentional use of fake news is a disturbing sign. but i'm not saying that it's not bad, i'm just saying that it's not new.ca: there's a lot of interest on facebook on this question about global governance versus nationalism. question here from phil dennis: "how do we get people, governments, to relinquish power? is that — is that — actually, the text is so big i can't read the full question. but is that a necessity? is it going to take war to get there? sorry phil — i mangled your question, but i blame the text right here.ynh: one option that some people talk about is that only a catastrophe can shake humankind and open the path to a real system of global governance, and they say that we can't do it before the catastrophe, but we need to start laying the foundations so that when the disaster strikes, we can react quickly. but people will just not have the motivation to do such a thing before the disaster strikes. another thing that i would emphasize is that anybody who is really interested in global governance should always make it very, very clear that it doesn't replace or abolish local identities and communities, that it should come both as — it should be part of a single package.ca: i want to hear more on this, because the very words "global governance" are almost the epitome of evil in the mindset of a lot of people on the alt-right right now. it just seems scary, remote, distant, and it has let them down, and so globalists, global governance — no, go away! and many view the election as the ultimate poke in the eye to anyone who believes in that. so how do we change the narrative so that it doesn't seem so scary and remote? build more on this idea of it being compatible with local identity, local communities.ynh: well, i think again we should start really with the biological realities of homo sapiens. and biology tells us two things about homo sapiens which are very relevant to this issue: first of all, that we are completely dependent on the ecological system around us, and that today we are talking about a global system. you cannot escape that.and at the same time, biology tells us about homo sapiens that we are social animals, but that we are social on a very, very local level. it's just a simple fact of humanity that we cannot have intimate familiarity with more than about 150 individuals. the size of the natural group, the natural community of homo sapiens, is not more than 150 individuals, and everything beyond that is really based on all kinds of imaginary stories and large-scale institutions, and i think that we can find a way, again, based on a biological understanding of our species, to weave the two together and to understand that today in the 21st century, we need both the global level and the local community.and i would go even further than that and say that it starts with the body itself. the feelings that people today have of alienation and loneliness and not finding their place in the world, i would think that the chief problem is not global capitalism. the chief problem is that over the last hundred years, people have been becoming disembodied, have been distancing themselves from their body. as a hunter-gatherer or even as a peasant, to survive, you need to be constantly in touch with your body and with your senses, every moment. if you go to the forest to look for mushrooms and you don't pay attention to what you hear, to what you smell, to what you taste, you're dead. so you must be very connected.in the last hundred years, people are losing their ability to be in touch with their body and their senses, to hear, to smell, to feel. more and more attention goes to screens, to what is happening elsewhere, some other time. this, i think, is the deep reason for the feelings of alienation and loneliness and so forth, and therefore part of the solution is not to bring back some mass nationalism, but also reconnect with our own bodies, and if you are back in touch with your body, you will feel much more at home in the world also.ca: well, depending on how things go, we may all be back in the forest soon. we're going to have one more question in the room and one more on facebook.ama adi-dako: hello. i'm from ghana, west africa, and my question is: i'm wondering how do you present and justify the idea of global governance to countries that have been historically disenfranchised by the effects of globalization, and also, if we're talking about global governance, it sounds to me like it will definitely come from a very westernized idea of what the "global" is supposed to look like. so how do we present and justify that idea of global versus wholly nationalist to people in countries like ghana and nigeria and togo and other countries like that?ynh: i would start by saying that history is extremely unfair, and that we should realize that. many of the countries that suffered most from the last 200 years of globalization and imperialism and industrialization are exactly the countries which are also most likely to suffer most from the next wave. and we should be very, very clear about that. if we don't have a global governance, and if we suffer from climate change, from technological disruptions, the worst suffering will not be in the us. the worst suffering will be in ghana, will be in sudan, will be in syria, will be in bangladesh, will be in those places.so i think those countries have an even greater incentive to do something about the next wave of disruption, whether it's ecological or whether it's technological. again, if you think about technological disruption, so if ai and 3d printers and robots will take the jobs from billions of people, i worry far less about the swedes than about the people in ghana or in bangladesh. and therefore, because history is so unfair and the results of a calamity will not be shared equally between everybody, as usual, the rich will be able to get away from the worst consequences of climate change in a way that the poor will not be able to.ca: and here's a great question from cameron taylor on facebook: "at the end of 'sapiens,'" you said we should be asking the question, 'what do we want to want?' well, what do you think we should want to want?"ynh: i think we should want to want to know the truth, to understand reality. mostly what we want is to change reality, to fit it to our own desires, to our own wishes, and i think we should first want to understand it. if you look at the long-term trajectory of history, what you see is that for thousands of years we humans have been gaining control of the world outside us and trying to shape it to fit our own desires. and we've gained control of the other animals, of the rivers, of the forests, and reshaped them completely, causing an ecological destruction without making ourselves satisfied.so the next step is we turn our gaze inwards, and we say ok, getting control of the world outside us did not really make us satisfied. let's now try to gain control of the world inside us. this is the really big project of science and technology and industry in the 21st century — to try and gain control of the world inside us, to learn how to engineer and produce bodies and brains and minds. these are likely to be the main products of the 21st century economy. when people think about the future, very often they think in terms, "oh, i want to gain control of my body and of my brain." and i think that's very dangerous.if we've learned anything from our previous history, it's that yes, we gain the power to manipulate, but because we didn't really understand the complexity of the ecological system, we are now facing an ecological meltdown. and if we now try to reengineer the world inside us without really understanding it, especially without understanding the complexity of our mental system, we might cause a kind of internal ecological disaster, and we'll face a kind of mental meltdown inside us.ca: putting all the pieces together here — the current politics, the coming technology, concerns like the one you've just outlined — i mean, it seems like you yourself are in quite a bleak place when you think about the future. you're pretty worried about it. is that right? and if there was one cause for hope, how would you state that?ynh: i focus on the most dangerous possibilities partly because this is like my job or responsibility as a historian or social critic. i mean, the industry focuses mainly on the positive sides, so it's the job of historians and philosophers and sociologists to highlight the more dangerous potential of all these new technologies. i don't think any of that is inevitable. technology is never deterministic. you can use the same technology to create very different kinds of societies.if you look at the 20th century, so, the technologies of the industrial revolution, the trains and electricity and all that could be used to create a communist dictatorship or a fascist regime or a liberal democracy. the trains did not tell you what to do with them. similarly, now, artificial intelligence and bioengineering and all of that — they don't predetermine a single outcome. humanity can rise up to the challenge, and the best example we have of humanity rising up to the challenge of a new technology is nuclear weapons. in the late 1940s, '50s, many people were convinced that sooner or later the cold war will end in a nuclear catastrophe, destroying human civilization. and this did not happen. in fact, nuclear weapons prompted humans all over the world to change the way that they manage international politics to reduce violence.and many countries basically took out war from their political toolkit. they no longer tried to pursue their interests with warfare. not all countries have done so, but many countries have. and this is maybe the most important reason why international violence declined dramatically since 1945, and today, as i said, more people commit suicide than are killed in war. so this, i think, gives us a good example that even the most frightening technology, humans can rise up to the challenge and actually some good can come out of it. the problem is, we have very little margin for error. if we don't get it right, we might not have a second option to try again.ca: that's a very powerful note, on which i think we should draw this to a conclusion. before i wrap up, i just want to say one thing to people here and to the global ted community watching online, anyone watching online: help us with these dialogues. if you believe, like we do, that we need to find a different kind of conversation, now more than ever, help us do it. reach out to other people, try and have conversations with people you disagree with, understand them, pull the pieces together, and help us figure out how to take these conversations forward so we can make a real contribution to what's happening in the world right now.i think everyone feels more alive, more concerned, more engaged with the politics of the moment. the stakes do seem quite high, so help us respond to it in a wise, wise way.yuval harari, thank you. <title = "The racial politics of time">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'United States', 'culture', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'time']">
<occupation = "Cultural theorist">
what if i told you that time has a race, a race in the contemporary way that we understand race in the united states? typically, we talk about race in terms of black and white issues. in the african-american communities from which i come, we have a long-standing multi-generational joke about what we call "cp time," or "colored people's time." now, we no longer refer to african-americans as "colored," but this long-standing joke about our perpetual lateness to church, to cookouts, to family events and even to our own funerals, remains.i personally am a stickler for time. it's almost as if my mother, when i was growing up, said, "we will not be those black people." so we typically arrive to events 30 minutes early.but today, i want to talk to you more about the political nature of time, for if time had a race, it would be white. white people own time.i know, i know. making such "incendiary statements" makes us uncomfortable: haven't we moved past the point where race really matters? isn't race a heavy-handed concept? shouldn't we go ahead with our enlightened, progressive selves and relegate useless concepts like race to the dustbins of history? how will we ever get over racism if we keep on talking about race? perhaps we should lock up our concepts of race in a time capsule, bury them and dig them up in a thousand years, peer at them with the clearly more enlightened, raceless versions of ourselves that belong to the future. but you see there, that desire to mitigate the impact of race and racism shows up in how we attempt to manage time, in the ways we narrate history, in the ways we attempt to shove the negative truths of the present into the past, in the ways we attempt to argue that the future that we hope for is the present in which we're currently living.now, when barack obama became president of the us in 2008, many americans declared that we were post-racial. i'm from the academy where we're enamored with being post-everything. we're postmodern, we're post-structural, we're post-feminist. "post" has become a simple academic appendage that we apply to a range of terms to mark the way we were. but prefixes alone don't have the power to make race and racism a thing of the past. the us was never "pre-race." so to claim that we're post-race when we have yet to grapple with the impact of race on black people, latinos or the indigenous is disingenuous. just about the moment we were preparing to celebrate our post-racial future, our political conditions became the most racial they've been in the last 50 years.so today, i want to offer to you three observations, about the past, the present and the future of time, as it relates to the combating of racism and white dominance.first: the past. time has a history, and so do black people. but we treat time as though it is timeless, as though it has always been this way, as though it doesn't have a political history bound up with the plunder of indigenous lands, the genocide of indigenous people and the stealing of africans from their homeland. when white male european philosophers first thought to conceptualize time and history, one famously declared, "[africa] is no historical part of the world." he was essentially saying that africans were people outside of history who had had no impact on time or the march of progress.this idea, that black people have had no impact on history, is one of the foundational ideas of white supremacy. it's the reason that carter g. woodson created "negro history week" in 1926. it's the reason that we continue to celebrate black history month in the us every february.now, we also see this idea that black people are people either alternately outside of the bounds of time or stuck in the past, in a scenario where, much as i'm doing right now, a black person stands up and insists that racism still matters, and a person, usually white, says to them, "why are you stuck in the past? why can't you move on? we have a black president. we're past all that."william faulkner famously said, "the past is never dead. it's not even past." but my good friend professor kristie dotson says, "our memory is longer than our lifespan." we carry, all of us, family and communal hopes and dreams with us. we don't have the luxury of letting go of the past. but sometimes, our political conditions are so troubling that we don't know if we're living in the past or we're living in the present. take, for instance, when black lives matter protesters go out to protest unjust killings of black citizens by police, and the pictures that emerge from the protest look like they could have been taken 50 years ago. the past won't let us go. but still, let us press our way into the present.at present, i would argue that the racial struggles we are experiencing are clashes over time and space. what do i mean? well, i've already told you that white people own time. those in power dictate the pace of the workday. they dictate how much money our time is actually worth. and professor george lipsitz argues that white people even dictate the pace of social inclusion. they dictate how long it will actually take for minority groups to receive the rights that they have been fighting for.let me loop back to the past quickly to give you an example. if you think about the civil rights movement and the cries of its leaders for "freedom now," they were challenging the slow pace of white social inclusion. by 1965, the year the voting rights act was passed, there had been a full 100 years between the end of the civil war and the conferral of voting rights on african-american communities. despite the urgency of a war, it still took a full 100 years for actual social inclusion to occur.since 2012, conservative state legislatures across the us have ramped up attempts to roll back african-american voting rights by passing restrictive voter id laws and curtailing early voting opportunities. this past july, a federal court struck down north carolina's voter id law saying it "... targeted african-americans with surgical precision."restricting african-american inclusion in the body politic is a primary way that we attempt to manage and control people by managing and controlling time. but another place that we see these time-space clashes is in gentrifying cities like atlanta, brooklyn, philadelphia, new orleans and washington, dc — places that have had black populations for generations. but now, in the name of urban renewal and progress, these communities are pushed out, in service of bringing them into the 21st century.professor sharon holland asked: what happens when a person who exists in time meets someone who only occupies space? these racial struggles are battles over those who are perceived to be space-takers and those who are perceived to be world-makers. those who control the flow and thrust of history are considered world-makers who own and master time. in other words: white people. but when hegel famously said that africa was no historical part of the world, he implied that it was merely a voluminous land mass taking up space at the bottom of the globe. africans were space-takers. so today, white people continue to control the flow and thrust of history, while too often treating black people as though we are merely taking up space to which we are not entitled. time and the march of progress is used to justify a stunning degree of violence towards our most vulnerable populations, who, being perceived as space-takers rather than world-makers, are moved out of the places where they live, in service of bringing them into the 21st century.shortened life span according to zip code is just one example of the ways that time and space cohere in an unjust manner in the lives of black people. children who are born in new orleans zip code 70124, which is 93 percent white, can expect to live a full 25 years longer than children born in new orleans zip code 70112, which is 60 percent black. children born in washington, dc's wealthy maryland suburbs can expect to live a full 20 years longer than children born in its downtown neighborhoods.ta-nehisi coates argues that, "the defining feature of being drafted into the black race is the inescapable robbery of time." we experience time discrimination, he tells us, not just as structural, but as personal: in lost moments of joy, lost moments of connection, lost quality of time with loved ones and lost years of healthy quality of life.in the future, do you see black people? do black people have a future? what if you belong to the very race of people who have always been pitted against time? what if your group is the group for whom a future was never imagined? these time-space clashes — between protesters and police, between gentrifiers and residents — don't paint a very pretty picture of what america hopes for black people's future. if the present is any indicator, our children will be under-educated, health maladies will take their toll and housing will continue to be unaffordable.so if we're really ready to talk about the future, perhaps we should begin by admitting that we're out of time. we black people have always been out of time. time does not belong to us. our lives are lives of perpetual urgency. time is used to displace us, or conversely, we are urged into complacency through endless calls to just be patient. but if past is prologue, let us seize upon the ways in which we're always out of time anyway to demand with urgency freedom now.i believe the future is what we make it. but first, we have to decide that time belongs to all of us. no, we don't all get equal time, but we can decide that the time we do get is just and free. we can stop making your zip code the primary determinant of your lifespan. we can stop stealing learning time from black children through excessive use of suspensions and expulsions. we can stop stealing time from black people through long periods of incarceration for nonviolent crimes. the police can stop stealing time and black lives through use of excessive force.i believe the future is what we make it. but we can't get there on colored people's time or white time or your time or even my time. it's our time. ours.thank you. <title = "A robot that eats pollution">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'animals', 'biomechanics', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'design', 'engineering', 'environment', 'future', 'innovation', 'insects', 'invention', 'microbes', 'nature', 'oceans', 'oil', 'pollution', 'robots', 'science', 'technology', 'water']">
<occupation = "Roboticist">
hi, i'm an engineer and i make robots. now, of course you all know what a robot is, right? if you don't, you'd probably go to google, and you'd ask google what a robot is. so let's do that. we'll go to google and this is what we get. now, you can see here there are lots of different types of robots, but they're predominantly humanoid in structure. and they look pretty conventional because they've got plastic, they've got metal, they've got motors and gears and so on. some of them look quite friendly, and you could go up and you could hug them. some of them not so friendly, they look like they're straight out of "terminator," in fact they may well be straight out of "terminator." you can do lots of really cool things with these robots — you can do really exciting stuff.but i'd like to look at different kinds of robots — i want to make different kinds of robots. and i take inspiration from the things that don't look like us, but look like these. so these are natural biological organisms and they do some really cool things that we can't, and current robots can't either. they do all sorts of great things like moving around on the floor; they go into our gardens and they eat our crops; they climb trees; they go in water, they come out of water; they trap insects and digest them. so they do really interesting things. they live, they breathe, they die, they eat things from the environment. our current robots don't really do that. now, wouldn't it be great if you could use some of those characteristics in future robots so that you could solve some really interesting problems? i'm going to look at a couple of problems now in the environment where we can use the skills and the technologies derived from these animals and from the plants, and we can use them to solve those problems.let's have a look at two environmental problems. they're both of our making — this is man interacting with the environment and doing some rather unpleasant things. the first one is to do with the pressure of population. such is the pressure of population around the world that agriculture and farming is required to produce more and more crops. now, to do that, farmers put more and more chemicals onto the land. they put on fertilizers, nitrates, pesticides — all sorts of things that encourage the growth of the crops, but there are some negative impacts. one of the negative impacts is if you put lots of fertilizer on the land, not all of it goes into the crops. lots of it stays in the soil, and then when it rains, these chemicals go into the water table. and in the water table, then they go into streams, into lakes, into rivers and into the sea. now, if you put all of these chemicals, these nitrates, into those kinds of environments, there are organisms in those environments that will be affected by that — algae, for example. algae loves nitrates, it loves fertilizer, so it will take in all these chemicals, and if the conditions are right, it will mass produce. it will produce masses and masses of new algae. that's called a bloom. the trouble is that when algae reproduces like this, it starves the water of oxygen. as soon as you do that, the other organisms in the water can't survive. so, what do we do? we try to produce a robot that will eat the algae, consume it and make it safe.so that's the first problem. the second problem is also of our making, and it's to do with oil pollution. now, oil comes out of the engines that we use, the boats that we use. sometimes tankers flush their oil tanks into the sea, so oil is released into the sea that way. wouldn't it be nice if we could treat that in some way using robots that could eat the pollution the oil fields have produced? so that's what we do. we make robots that will eat pollution.to actually make the robot, we take inspiration from two organisms. on the right there you see the basking shark. the basking shark is a massive shark. it's noncarnivorous, so you can swim with it, as you can see. and the basking shark opens its mouth, and it swims through the water, collecting plankton. as it does that, it digests the food, and then it uses that energy in its body to keep moving. so, could we make a robot like that — like the basking shark that chugs through the water and eats up pollution? well, let's see if we can do that. but also, we take the inspiration from other organisms. i've got a picture here of a water boatman, and the water boatman is really cute. when it's swimming in the water, it uses its paddle-like legs to push itself forward.so we take those two organisms and we combine them together to make a new kind of robot. in fact, because we're using the water boatman as inspiration, and our robot sits on top of the water, and it rows, we call it the "row-bot." so a row-bot is a robot that rows. ok. so what does it look like? here's some pictures of the row-bot, and you'll see, it doesn't look anything like the robots we saw right at the beginning. google is wrong; robots don't look like that, they look like this.so i've got the row-bot here. i'll just hold it up for you. it gives you a sense of the scale, and it doesn't look anything like the others. ok, so it's made out of plastic, and we'll have a look now at the components that make up the row-bot — what makes it really special.the row-bot is made up of three parts, and those three parts are really like the parts of any organism. it's got a brain, it's got a body and it's got a stomach. it needs the stomach to create the energy. any row-bot will have those three components, and any organism will have those three components, so let's go through them one at a time. it has a body, and its body is made out of plastic, and it sits on top of the water. and it's got flippers on the side here — paddles that help it move, just like the water boatman. it's got a plastic body, but it's got a soft rubber mouth here, and a mouth here — it's got two mouths. why does it have two mouths? one is to let the food go in and the other is to let the food go out. so you can see really it's got a mouth and a derriere, or a — something where the stuff comes out, which is just like a real organism. so it's starting to look like that basking shark. so that's the body.the second component might be the stomach. we need to get the energy into the robot and we need to treat the pollution, so the pollution goes in, and it will do something. it's got a cell in the middle here called a microbial fuel cell. i'll put this down, and i'll lift up the fuel cell. here. so instead of having batteries, instead of having a conventional power system, it's got one of these. this is its stomach. and it really is a stomach because you can put energy in this side in the form of pollution, and it creates electricity.so what is it? it's called a microbial fuel cell. it's a little bit like a chemical fuel cell, which you might have come across in school, or you might've seen in the news. chemical fuel cells take hydrogen and oxygen, and they can combine them together and you get electricity. that's well-established technology; it was in the apollo space missions. that's from 40, 50 years ago. this is slightly newer. this is a microbial fuel cell. it's the same principle: it's got oxygen on one side, but instead of having hydrogen on the other, it's got some soup, and inside that soup there are living microbes. now, if you take some organic material — could be some waste products, some food, maybe a bit of your sandwich — you put it in there, the microbes will eat that food, and they will turn it into electricity. not only that, but if you select the right kind of microbes, you can use the microbial fuel cell to treat some of the pollution. if you choose the right microbes, the microbes will eat the algae. if you use other kinds of microbes, they will eat petroleum spirits and crude oil. so you can see how this stomach could be used to not only treat the pollution but also to generate electricity from the pollution. so the robot will move through the environment, taking food into its stomach, digest the food, create electricity, use that electricity to move through the environment and keep doing this.ok, so let's see what happens when we run the row-bot — when it does some rowing. here we've got a couple of videos, the first thing you'll see — hopefully you can see here is the mouth open. the front mouth and the bottom mouth open, and it will stay opened enough, then the robot will start to row forward. it moves through the water so that food goes in as the waste products go out. once it's moved enough, it stops and then it closes the mouth — slowly closes the mouths — and then it will sit there, and it will digest the food.of course these microbial fuel cells, they contain microbes. what you really want is lots of energy coming out of those microbes as quickly as possible. but we can't force the microbes and they generate a small amount of electricity per second. they generate milliwatts, or microwatts. let's put that into context. your mobile phone for example, one of these modern ones, if you use it, it takes about one watt. so that's a thousand or a million times as much energy that that uses compared to the microbial fuel cell. how can we cope with that? well, when the row-bot has done its digestion, when it's taken the food in, it will sit there and it will wait until it has consumed all that food. that could take some hours, it could take some days. a typical cycle for the row-bot looks like this: you open your mouth, you move, you close your mouth and you sit there for a while waiting. once you digest your food, then you can go about doing the same thing again. but you know what, that looks like a real organism, doesn't it? it looks like the kind of thing we do. saturday night, we go out, open our mouths, fill our stomachs, sit in front of the telly and digest. when we've had enough, we do the same thing again.ok, if we're lucky with this cycle, at the end of the cycle we'll have enough energy left over for us to be able to do something else. we could send a message, for example. we could send a message saying, "this is how much pollution i've eaten recently," or, "this is the kind of stuff that i've encountered," or, "this is where i am." that ability to send a message saying, "this is where i am," is really, really important. if you think about the oil slicks that we saw before, or those massive algal blooms, what you really want to do is put your row-bot out there, and it eats up all of those pollutions, and then you have to go collect them. why? because these row-bots at the moment, this row-bot i've got here, it contains motors, it contains wires, it contains components which themselves are not biodegradable. current row-bots contain things like toxic batteries. you can't leave those in the environment, so you need to track them, and then when they've finished their job of work, you need to collect them. that limits the number of row-bots you can use. if, on the other hand, you have robot a little bit like a biological organism, when it comes to the end of its life, it dies and it degrades to nothing.so wouldn't it be nice if these robots, instead of being like this, made out of plastic, were made out of other materials, which when you throw them out there, they biodegrade to nothing? that changes the way in which we use robots. instead of putting 10 or 100 out into the environment, having to track them, and then when they die, collect them, you could put a thousand, a million, a billion robots into the environment. just spread them around. you know that at the end of their lives, they're going to degrade to nothing. you don't need to worry about them. so that changes the way in which you think about robots and the way you deploy them.then the question is: can you do this? well, yes, we have shown that you can do this. you can make robots which are biodegradable. what's really interesting is you can use household materials to make these biodegradable robots. i'll show you some; you might be surprised. you can make a robot out of jelly. instead of having a motor, which we have at the moment, you can make things called artificial muscles. artificial muscles are smart materials, you apply electricity to them, and they contract, or they bend or they twist. they look like real muscles. so instead of having a motor, you have these artificial muscles. and you can make artificial muscles out of jelly. if you take some jelly and some salts, and do a bit of jiggery-pokery, you can make an artificial muscle.we've also shown you can make the microbial fuel cell's stomach out of paper. so you could make the whole robot out of biodegradable materials. you throw them out there, and they degrade to nothing.well, this is really, really exciting. it's going to totally change the way in which we think about robots, but also it allows you to be really creative in the way in which you think about what you can do with these robots. i'll give you an example. if you can use jelly to make a robot — now, we eat jelly, right? so, why not make something like this? a robot gummy bear. here, i've got some i prepared earlier. there we go. i've got a packet — and i've got a lemon-flavored one. i'll take this gummy bear — he's not robotic, ok? we have to pretend. and what you do with one of these is you put it in your mouth — the lemon's quite nice. try not to chew it too much, it's a robot, it may not like it. and then you swallow it. and then it goes into your stomach. and when it's inside your stomach, it moves, it thinks, it twists, it bends, it does something. it could go further down into your intestines, find out whether you've got some ulcer or cancer, maybe do an injection, something like that. you know that once it's done its job of work, it could be consumed by your stomach, or if you don't want that, it could go straight through you, into the toilet, and be degraded safely in the environment. so this changes the way, again, in which we think about robots.so, we started off looking at robots that would eat pollution, and then we're looking at robots which we can eat. i hope this gives you some idea of the kinds of things we can do with future robots.thank you very much for your attention. <title = "A few ways to fix a government">
<tags = "['Africa', 'business', 'cancer', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'economics', 'global development', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'health', 'innovation', 'investment', 'potential', 'society']">
<occupation = "Public sector researcher">
growing up in kenya, i knew i always wanted to study biochemistry. see, i had seen the impact of the high prevalence of diseases like malaria, and i wanted to make medicines that would cure the sick. so i worked really hard, got a scholarship to the united states, where i became a cancer researcher, and i loved it. for someone who wants to cure diseases, there is no higher calling.ten years later, i returned to kenya to do just that. a freshly minted phd, ready to take on this horrific illness, which in kenya was almost certainly a death sentence. but instead of landing a job in a pharmaceutical company or a hospital, i found myself drawn to a different kind of lab, working with a different kind of patient — a patient whose illness was so serious it impacted every single person in my country; a patient who needed to get healthy fast. that patient was my government. see, many of us will agree that lots of governments are unhealthy today. and kenya was no exception. when i returned to kenya in 2014, there was 17 percent youth unemployment. and nairobi, the major business hub, was rated 177th on the quality of living index. it was bad.now, an economy is only as healthy as the entities that make it up. so when government — one of its most vital entities — is weak or unhealthy, everyone and everything suffers. sometimes you might put a band-aid in place to try and temporarily stop the pain. maybe some of you here have participated in a band-aid operation to an african country — setting up alternative schools, building hospitals, digging wells — because governments there either weren't or couldn't provide the services to their citizens.we all know this is a temporary solution. there are just some things band-aids can't fix, like providing an environment where businesses feel secure that they'll have an equal opportunity to be able to run and start their businesses successfully. or there are systems in place that would protect the private property that they create. i would argue, only government is capable of creating these necessary conditions for economies to thrive.economies thrive when business are able to quickly and easily set up shop. business owners create new sources of income for themselves, new jobs get added into the economy and then more taxes are paid to fund public projects. new business is good for everyone. and it's such an important measure of economic growth, the world bank has a ranking called the "ease of doing business ranking," which measures how easy or difficult it is to start a business in any given country. and as you can imagine, starting or running a business in a country with an ailing government — almost impossible.the president of kenya knew this, which is why in 2014, he came to our lab and asked us to partner with him to be able to help kenya to jump-start business growth. he set an ambitious goal: he wanted kenya to be ranked top 50 in this world bank ranking. in 2014 when he came, kenya was ranked 136 out of 189 countries. we had our work cut out for us.fortunately, he came to the right place. we're not just a band-aid kind of team. we're a group of computer scientists, mathematicians, engineers and a cancer researcher, who understood that in order to cure the sickness of a system as big as government, we needed to examine the whole body, and then we needed to drill down all the way from the organs, into the tissues, all the way to single cells, so that we could properly make a diagnosis.so with our marching orders from the president himself, we embarked on the purest of the scientific method: collecting data — all the data we could get our hands on — making hypotheses, creating solutions, one after the other.so we met with hundreds of individuals who worked at government agencies, from the tax agency, the lands office, utilities company, the agency that's responsible for registering companies, and with each of them, we observed them as they served customers, we documented their processes — most of them were manual. we also just went back and looked at a lot of their previous paperwork to try and really understand; to try and diagnose what bodily malfunctions had occurred that lead to that 136th spot on the world bank list.what did we find? well, in kenya it was taking 72 days for a business owner to register their property, compared to just one day in new zealand, which was ranked second on the world bank list. it took 158 days to get a new electric connection. in korea it took 18 days. if you wanted to get a construction permit so you could put up a building, in kenya, it was going to take you 125 days. in singapore, which is ranked first, that would only take you 26 days. god forbid you had to go to court to get help in being able to settle a dispute to enforce a contract, because that process alone would take you 465 days. and if that wasn't bad enough, you would lose 40 percent of your claim in just fees — legal fees, enforcement fees, court fees.now, i know what you're thinking: for there to exist such inefficiencies in an african country, there must be corruption. the very cells that run the show must be corrupt to the bone. i thought so, too, actually. when we started out, i thought i was going to find so much corruption, i was literally going to either die or get killed in the process. but when we dug deeper, we didn't find corruption in the classic sense: slimy gangsters lurking in the darkness, waiting to grease the palms of their friends. what we found was an overwhelming sense of helplessness. our government was sick, because government employees felt helpless. they felt that they were not empowered to drive change. and when people feel stuck and helpless, they stop seeing their role in a bigger system. they start to think the work they do doesn't matter in driving change. and when that happens, things slow down, fall through the cracks and inefficiencies flourish.now imagine with me, if you had a process you had to go through — had no other alternative — and this process was inefficient, complex and very, very slow. what would you do? i think you might start by trying to find somebody to outsource it to, so that they can just take care of that for you. if that doesn't work, maybe you'd consider paying somebody to just "unofficially" take care of it on your behalf — especially if you thought nobody was going to catch you. not out of malice or greed, just trying to make sure that you get something to work for you so you can move on. unfortunately, that is the beginning of corruption. and if left to thrive and grow, it seeps into the whole system, and before you know it, the whole body is sick.knowing this, we had to start by making sure that every single stakeholder we worked with had a shared vision for what we wanted to do. so we met with everyone, from the clerk whose sole job is to remove staples from application packets, to the legal drafters at the attorney general's office, to the clerks who are responsible for serving business owners when they came to access government services. and with them, we made sure that they understood how their day-to-day actions were impacting our ability as a country to create new jobs and to attract investments. no one's role was too small; everyone's role was vital.now, guess what we started to see? a coalition of government employees who are excited and ready to drive change, began to grow and form. and together we started to implement changes that impacted the service delivery of our country.the result? in just two years, kenya's ranking moved from 136 to 92. and in recognition of the significant reforms we've been able to implement in such a short time, kenya was recognized to be among the top three global reformers in the world two years in a row. are we fully healthy? no. we have some serious work still to do. i like to think about these two years like a weight-loss program. it's that time after months of hard, grueling work at the gym, and then you get your first time to weigh yourself, and you've lost 20 pounds. you're feeling unstoppable.now, some of you may think this doesn't apply to you. you're not from kenya. you don't intend to be an entrepreneur. but think with me for just a moment. when is the last time you accessed a government service? maybe applied for your driver's license, tried to do your taxes on your own. it's easy in this political and global economy to want to give up when we think about transforming government. we can easily resign to the fact or to the thinking that government is too inefficient, too corrupt, unfixable. we might even rarely get some key government responsibilities to other sectors, to band-aid solutions, or to just give up and feel helpless. but just because a system is sick doesn't mean it's dying. we cannot afford to give up when it comes to the challenges of fixing our governments.in the end, what really makes a government healthy is when healthy cells — that's you and i — get to the ground, roll up our sleeves, refuse to be helpless and believe that sometimes, all it takes is for us to create some space for healthy cells to grow and thrive.thank you. <title = "The data behind Hollywood's sexism">
<tags = "['activism', 'art', 'business', 'communication', 'data', 'film', 'inequality', 'movies', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Media researcher">
today, i want to tell you about a pressing social issue. now, it's not nuclear arms, it's not immigration, and it's not malaria. i'm here to talk about movies.now, in all seriousness, movies are actually really important. in film, we can be wildly entertained, and we can also be transported through storytelling. storytelling is so important. stories tell us what societies value, they offer us lessons, and they share and preserve our history. stories are amazing.but stories don't give everyone the same opportunity to appear within them, particularly not stories compartmentalized in the form of american movies. in film, interestingly enough, females are still erased and marginalized in a lot of our stories. and i learned this for the first time about 10 years ago when i did my first study on gender role in g-rated films. since then, we've conducted more than 30 investigations. my team is tired. and i've committed my life as researcher and activist to fighting the inclusion crisis in hollywood.so today, what i'd like to do is tell you about that crisis. i want to talk about gender inequality in film. i want to tell you how it is perpetuated, and then i'm going to tell you how we're going to fix it.however, one caveat before i begin: my data are really depressing. so i want to apologize in advance, because i'm going to put you all in a really bad mood. but i'm going to bring it up at the end, and i'm going to present a silver lining to fix this mess that we've been in for a very, very long time.so, let's start with the gravity of the situation. each year, my research team examines the top 100 grossing films in the united states. what we do is we look at every speaking or named character on-screen. now, to count in one of my investigations, all a character has to do is say one word. this is a very low bar. thus far, we've looked at 800 movies, from 2007 to 2015, cataloguing every speaking character on-screen for gender, race, ethnicity, lgbt and characters with a disability.let's take a look at really some problematic trends. first, females are still noticeably absent on-screen in film. across 800 movies and 35,205 speaking characters, less than a third of all roles go to girls and women. less than a third! there's been no change from 2007 to 2015, and if you compare our results to a small sample of films from 1946 to 1955, there's been no change in over a half of a century. over half of a century! but we're half of the population.now, if we look at this data intersectionally, which has been a focus of today, the picture becomes even more problematic. across the top 100 films of just last year, 48 films didn't feature one black or african-american speaking character, not one. 70 films were devoid of asian or asian-american speaking characters that were girls or women. none. eighty-four films didn't feature one female character that had a disability. and 93 were devoid of lesbian, bisexual or transgender female speaking characters. this is not underrepresentation. this is erasure, and i call this the epidemic of invisibility.now, when we move from prevalence to protagonist, the story is still problematic. out of a hundred films last year, only 32 featured a female lead or colead driving the action. only three out of a hundred films featured an underrepresented female driving the story, and only one diverse woman that was 45 years of age or older at the time of theatrical release.now let's look at portrayal. in addition to the numbers you just saw, females are far more likely to be sexualized in film than their male counterparts. matter of fact, they're about three times as likely to be shown in sexually revealing clothing, partially naked, and they're far more likely to be thin. now, sometimes, in animation, females are so thin that their waist size approximates the circumference of their upper arm. we like to say that these gals have no room for a womb or any other internal organ. now, all joking aside, theories suggest, research confirms, exposure to thin ideals and objectifying content can lead to body dissatisfaction, internalization of the thin ideal and self-objectification among some female viewers. obviously, what we see on-screen and what we see in the world, they do not match. they do not match! matter of fact, if we lived in the screen world, we would have a population crisis on our hands.so, as soon as i recognized these patterns, i wanted to find out why, and it turns out that there are two drivers to inequality on-screen: content creator gender and misperceptions of the audience. let's unpack them really quick.if you want to change any of the patterns i just talked about, all you have to do is hire female directors. turns out, the female directors are associated with, in terms of short films and indie films, more girls and women on-screen, more stories with women in the center, more stories with women 40 years of age or older on-screen, which i think is good news for this crowd. more underrepresented — sorry. sorry but not sorry. more underrepresented characters in terms of race and ethnicity, and most importantly, more women working behind the camera in key production roles. easy answer to the problems that we just talked about. or is it? it's actually not. 800 films, 2007-2015, 886 directors. only 4.1 percent are women. only three are african-american or black, and only one woman was asian.so why is it so difficult to have female directors if they're part of the solution? well, to answer this question, we conducted a study. we interviewed dozens of industry insiders and asked them about directors. turns out, both male and female executives, when they think director, they think male. they perceive the traits of leadership to be masculine in nature. so when they're going to hire a director to command a crew, lead a ship, be a visionary or be general patton, all the things that we've heard — their thoughts and ideations pull male. the perception of director or a leader is inconsistent with the perception of a woman. the roles are incongruous, which is consistent with a lot of research in the psychological arena.second factor contributing to inequality on-screen is misperceptions of the audience. i don't need to tell this crowd: 50 percent of the people that go to the box office and buy tickets are girls and women in this country. right? but we're not perceived to be a viable or financially lucrative target audience. further, there's some misperceptions about whether females can open a film. open a film means that if you place a female at the center, it doesn't have the return on investment that if you place a male at the center of a story does.this misperception is actually costly. right? especially in the wake of franchise successes like "the hunger games," "pitch perfect" or that small little indie film, "star wars: the force awakens." our own economic analyses show that gender of the lead character doesn't play a role in economic success in the united states. but what does? production costs alone or in conjunction with how widely a film is distributed in this country. it's not the gender of the lead character.so at this point, we should all be sufficiently depressed. no change in 50 years, few female directors working behind the camera and the entertainment industry does not trust us as an audience. well, i told you there would be a silver lining, and there is. there are actually simple and tangible solutions to fixing this problem that involve content creators, executives and consumers like the individuals in this room. let's talk about a few of them.the first is what i call "just add five." did you know if we looked at the top 100 films next year and simply added five female speaking characters on-screen to each of those films, it would create a new norm. if we were to do this for three contiguous years, we would be at gender parity for the first time in over a half of a century. now, this approach is advantageous for a variety of reasons. one? it doesn't take away jobs for male actors. heaven forbid. two, it's actually cost-effective. it doesn't cost that much. three, it builds a pipeline for talent. and four, it humanizes the production process. why? because it makes sure that there's women on set.second solution is for a-list talent. a-listers, as we all know, can make demands in their contracts, particularly the ones that work on the biggest hollywood films. what if those a-listers simply added an equity clause or an inclusion rider into their contract? now, what does that mean? well, you probably don't know but the typical feature film has about 40 to 45 speaking characters in it. i would argue that only 8 to 10 of those characters are actually relevant to the story. except maybe "avengers." right? a few more in "avengers." the remaining 30 or so roles, there's no reason why those minor roles can't match or reflect the demography of where the story is taking place. an equity rider by an a-lister in their contract can stipulate that those roles reflect the world in which we actually live. now, there's no reason why a network, a studio or a production company cannot adopt the same contractual language in their negotiation processes.third solution: this would be for the entertainment industry, hollywood in particular, to adopt the rooney rule when it comes to hiring practices around directors. now, in the nfl, the rooney rule stipulates that if a team wants to hire a coach from outside the organization, what they have to do is interview an underrepresented candidate. the exact same principle can apply to hollywood films. how? well, on these top films, executives and agents can make sure that women and people of color are not only on the consideration list, but they're actually interviewed for the job. now, one might say, why is this important? because it exposes or introduces executives to female directors who otherwise fall prey to exclusionary hiring practices.the fourth solution is for consumers like me and you. if we want to see more films by, for and about women, we have to support them. it may mean going to the independent theater chain instead of the multiplex. or it might mean scrolling down a little further online to find a film by a female director. or it may be writing a check and funding a film, particularly by a female director from an underrepresented background. right? we need to write, call and email companies that are making and distributing films, and we need to post on our social media accounts when we want to see inclusive representation, women on-screen, and most importantly, women behind the camera. we need to make our voices heard and our dollars count.now, we actually have the ability to change the world on this one. the us and its content, films in particular, have captured the imaginations of audiences worldwide. worldwide. so that means that the film industry has unprecedented access to be able to distribute stories about equality all around the world. imagine what would happen if the film industry aligned its values with what it shows on-screen. it could foster inclusion and acceptance for girls and women, people of color, the lgbt community, individuals with disabilities, and so many more around the world. the only thing that the film industry has to do is unleash its secret weapon, and that's storytelling.now, at the beginning of this talk, i said that films — that they can actually transport us, but i would like to argue that films, they can transform us. none of us in this room have grown up or experienced a storytelling landscape with fully realized female characters, none of us, because the numbers haven't changed. what would happen if the next generation of audiences grew up with a whole different screen reality? what would happen? well i'm here to tell you today that it's not only possible to change what we see on-screen but i am impatient for it to get here.so let's agree to take action today to eradicate the epidemic of invisibility. and let's agree to take action today to agree that us audiences and global viewers demand and deserve more. and let's agree today that the next generation of viewers and audiences, that they deserve to see the stories we were never able to see.thank you. <title = "Smelfies, and other experiments in synthetic biology">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'art', 'bacteria', 'beauty', 'chemistry', 'design', 'innovation', 'microbes', 'nature', 'plants', 'science', 'science and art', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Designer, artist">
what if our plants could sense the toxicity levels in the soil and express that toxicity through the color of its leaves? what if those plants could also remove those toxins from the soil? instead, what if those plants grew their own packaging, or were designed to only be harvested by their owners' own patented machines? what happens when biological design is driven by the motivations of mass-produced commodities? what kind of world would that be?my name is ani, and i'm a designer and researcher at mit media lab, where i'm part of a relatively new and unique group called design fiction, where we're wedged somewhere between science fiction and science fact. and at mit, i am lucky enough to rub shoulders with scientists studying all kinds of cutting edge fields like synthetic neurobiology, artificial intelligence, artificial life and everything in between. and across campus, there's truly brilliant scientists asking questions like, "how can i make the world a better place?" and part of what my group likes to ask is, "what is better?" what is better for you, for me, for a white woman, a gay man, a veteran, a child with a prosthetic? technology is never neutral. it frames a reality and reflects a context. can you imagine what it would say about the work-life balance at your office if these were standard issue on the first day? i believe it's the role of artists and designers to raise critical questions. art is how you can see and feel the future, and today is an exciting time to be a designer, for all the new tools becoming accessible. for instance, synthetic biology seeks to write biology as a design problem. and through these developments, my lab asks, what are the roles and responsibilities of an artist, designer, scientist or businessman? what are the implications of synthetic biology, genetic engineering, and how are they shaping our notions of what it means to be a human? what are the implications of this on society, on evolution and what are the stakes in this game?my own speculative design research at the current moment plays with synthetic biology, but for more emotionally driven output. i'm obsessed with olfaction as a design space, and this project started with this idea of what if you could take a smell selfie, a smelfie? what if you could take your own natural body odor and send it to a lover? funny enough, i found that this was a 19th century austrian tradition, where couples in courtship would keep a slice of apple crammed under their armpit during dances, and at the end of the evening, the girl would give the guy she most fancied her used fruit, and if the feeling was mutual, he would wolf down that stinky apple. famously, napoleon wrote many love letters to josephine, but perhaps amongst the most memorable is this brief and urgent note: "home in three days. don't bathe." both napoleon and josephine adored violets. josephine wore violet-scented perfume, carried violets on their wedding day, and napoleon sent her a bouquet of violets every year on their anniversary. when josephine passed away, he planted violets at her grave, and just before his exile, he went back to that tomb site, picked some of those flowers, entombed them in a locket and wore them until the day he died.and i found this so moving, i thought, could i engineer that violet to smell just like josephine? what if, for the rest of eternity, when you went to visit her site, you could smell josephine just as napoleon loved her? could we engineer new ways of mourning, new rituals for remembering? after all, we've engineered transgenic crops to be maximized for profit, crops that stand up to transport, crops that have a long shelf life, crops that taste sugary sweet but resist pests, sometimes at the expense of nutritional value. can we harness these same technologies for an emotionally sensitive output?so currently in my lab, i'm researching questions like, what makes a human smell like a human? and it turns out it's fairly complicated. factors such as your diet, your medications, your lifestyle all factor into the way you smell. and i found that our sweat is mostly odorless, but it's our bacteria and microbiome that's responsible for your smells, your mood, your identity and so much beyond. and there's all kinds of molecules that you emit but which we only perceive subconsciously.so i've been cataloging and collecting bacteria from different sites of my body. after talking to a scientist, we thought, maybe the perfect concoction of ani is like 10 percent collarbone, 30 percent underarm, 40 percent bikini line and so forth, and occasionally i let researchers from other labs take a sniff of my samples. and it's been interesting to hear how smell of the body is perceived outside of the context of the body. i've gotten feedback such as, smells like flowers, like chicken, like cornflakes, like beef carnitas. at the same time, i cultivate a set of carnivorous plants for their ability to emit fleshlike odors to attract prey, in an attempt to kind of create this symbiotic relationship between my bacteria and this organism. and as it so happens, i'm at mit and i'm in a bar, and i was talking to a scientist who happens to be a chemist and a plant scientist, and i was telling him about my project, and he was like, "well, this sounds like botany for lonely women." unperturbed, i said, "ok." i challenged him. "can we engineer a plant that can love me back?" and for some reason, he was like, "sure, why not?"so we started with, can we get a plant to grow towards me like i was the sun? and so we're looking at mechanisms in plants such as phototropism, which causes the plant to grow towards the sun by producing hormones like auxin, which causes cell elongation on the shady side. and right now i'm creating a set of lipsticks that are infused with these chemicals that allow me to interact with a plant on its own chemical signatures — lipsticks that cause plants to grow where i kiss it, plants that blossom where i kiss the bloom.and through these projects, i'm asking questions like, how do we define nature? how do we define nature when we can reengineer its properties, and when should we do it? should we do it for profit, for utility? can we do it for emotional ends? can biotechnology be used to create work as moving as music? what are the thresholds between science and its ability to shape our emotional landscape?it's a famous design mantra that form follows function. well, now, wedged somewhere between science, design and art i get to ask, what if fiction informs fact? what kind of r&d lab would that look like and what kind of questions would we ask together?we often look to technology as the answer, but as an artist and designer, i like to ask, but what is the question?thank you. <title = "This app makes it fun to pick up litter">
<tags = "['TED Residency', 'cities', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'data', 'entrepreneur', 'environment', 'innovation', 'map', 'plastic', 'pollution', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
this story starts with these two — my kids. we were hiking in the oakland woods when my daughter noticed a plastic tub of cat litter in a creek. she looked at me and said, "daddy? that doesn't go there."when she said that, it reminded me of summer camp. on the morning of visiting day, right before they'd let our anxious parents come barreling through the gates, our camp director would say, "quick! everyone pick up five pieces of litter." you get a couple hundred kids each picking up five pieces, and pretty soon, you've got a much cleaner camp. so i thought, why not apply that crowdsourced cleanup model to the entire planet? and that was the inspiration for litterati.the vision is to create a litter-free world. let me show you how it started. i took a picture of a cigarette using instagram. then i took another photo ... and another photo ... and another photo. and i noticed two things: one, litter became artistic and approachable; and two, at the end of a few days, i had 50 photos on my phone and i had picked up each piece, and i realized that i was keeping a record of the positive impact i was having on the planet. that's 50 less things that you might see, or you might step on, or some bird might eat.so i started telling people what i was doing, and they started participating. one day, this photo showed up from china. and that's when i realized that litterati was more than just pretty pictures; we were becoming a community that was collecting data. each photo tells a story. it tells us who picked up what, a geotag tells us where and a time stamp tells us when. so i built a google map, and started plotting the points where pieces were being picked up. and through that process, the community grew and the data grew. my two kids go to school right in that bullseye.litter: it's blending into the background of our lives. but what if we brought it to the forefront? what if we understood exactly what was on our streets, our sidewalks and our school yards? how might we use that data to make a difference?well, let me show you. the first is with cities. san francisco wanted to understand what percentage of litter was cigarettes. why? to create a tax. so they put a couple of people in the streets with pencils and clipboards, who walked around collecting information which led to a 20-cent tax on all cigarette sales. and then they got sued by big tobacco, who claimed that collecting information with pencils and clipboards is neither precise nor provable. the city called me and asked if our technology could help. i'm not sure they realized that our technology was my instagram account — but i said, "yes, we can." "and we can tell you if that's a parliament or a pall mall. plus, every photograph is geotagged and time-stamped, providing you with proof." four days and 5,000 pieces later, our data was used in court to not only defend but double the tax, generating an annual recurring revenue of four million dollars for san francisco to clean itself up.now, during that process i learned two things: one, instagram is not the right tool — so we built an app.and two, if you think about it, every city in the world has a unique litter fingerprint, and that fingerprint provides both the source of the problem and the path to the solution. if you could generate a revenue stream just by understanding the percentage of cigarettes, well, what about coffee cups or soda cans or plastic bottles? if you could fingerprint san francisco, well, how about oakland or amsterdam or somewhere much closer to home? and what about brands? how might they use this data to align their environmental and economic interests?there's a block in downtown oakland that's covered in blight. the litterati community got together and picked up 1,500 pieces. and here's what we learned: most of that litter came from a very well-known taco brand. most of that brand's litter were their own hot sauce packets, and most of those hot sauce packets hadn't even been opened. the problem and the path to the solution — well, maybe that brand only gives out hot sauce upon request or installs bulk dispensers or comes up with more sustainable packaging. how does a brand take an environmental hazard, turn it into an economic engine and become an industry hero?if you really want to create change, there's no better place to start than with our kids. a group of fifth graders picked up 1,247 pieces of litter just on their school yard. and they learned that the most common type of litter were the plastic straw wrappers from their own cafeteria. so these kids went to their principal and asked, "why are we still buying straws?" and they stopped. and they learned that individually they could each make a difference, but together they created an impact.it doesn't matter if you're a student or a scientist, whether you live in honolulu or hanoi, this is a community for everyone. it started because of two little kids in the northern california woods, and today it's spread across the world. and you know how we're getting there? one piece at a time.thank you. <title = "What I learned from 2,000 obituaries">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'aging', 'communication', 'death', 'entrepreneur', 'humanity', 'life', 'motivation', 'personality', 'society', 'success']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
joseph keller used to jog around the stanford campus, and he was struck by all the women jogging there as well. why did their ponytails swing from side to side like that? being a mathematician, he set out to understand why. professor keller was curious about many things: why teapots dribble or how earthworms wriggle. until a few months ago, i hadn't heard of joseph keller. i read about him in the new york times, in the obituaries. the times had half a page of editorial dedicated to him, which you can imagine is premium space for a newspaper of their stature.i read the obituaries almost every day. my wife understandably thinks i'm rather morbid to begin my day with scrambled eggs and a "let's see who died today." but if you think about it, the front page of the newspaper is usually bad news, and cues man's failures. an instance where bad news cues accomplishment is at the end of the paper, in the obituaries.in my day job, i run a company that focuses on future insights that marketers can derive from past data — a kind of rearview-mirror analysis. and we began to think: what if we held a rearview mirror to obituaries from the new york times? were there lessons on how you could get your obituary featured — even if you aren't around to enjoy it? would this go better with scrambled eggs? and so, we looked at the data. 2,000 editorial, non-paid obituaries over a 20-month period between 2015 and 2016. what did these 2,000 deaths — rather, lives — teach us?well, first we looked at words. this here is an obituary headline. this one is of the amazing lee kuan yew. if you remove the beginning and the end, you're left with a beautifully worded descriptor that tries to, in just a few words, capture an achievement or a lifetime. just looking at these is fascinating. here are a few famous ones, people who died in the last two years. try and guess who they are.[an artist who defied genre] that's prince.[titan of boxing and the 20th century] oh, yes.[muhammad ali][groundbreaking architect] zaha hadid.so we took these descriptors and did what's called natural language processing, where you feed these into a program, it throws out the superfluous words — "the," "and," — the kind of words you can mime easily in "charades," — and leaves you with the most significant words. and we did it not just for these four, but for all 2,000 descriptors. and this is what it looks like. film, theatre, music, dance and of course, art, are huge. over 40 percent. you have to wonder why in so many societies we insist that our kids pursue engineering or medicine or business or law to be construed as successful. and while we're talking profession, let's look at age — the average age at which they achieved things. that number is 37. what that means is, you've got to wait 37 years ... before your first significant achievement that you're remembered for — on average — 44 years later, when you die at the age of 81 — on average. talk about having to be patient. of course, it varies by profession. if you're a sports star, you'll probably hit your stride in your 20s. and if you're in your 40s like me, you can join the fun world of politics. politicians do their first and sometimes only commendable act in their mid-40s. if you're wondering what "others" are, here are some examples. isn't it fascinating, the things people do and the things they're remembered for? our curiosity was in overdrive, and we desired to analyze more than just a descriptor. so, we ingested the entire first paragraph of all 2,000 obituaries, but we did this separately for two groups of people: people that are famous and people that are not famous. famous people — prince, ali, zaha hadid — people who are not famous are people like jocelyn cooper, reverend curry or lorna kelly. i'm willing to bet you haven't heard of most of their names. amazing people, fantastic achievements, but they're not famous. so what if we analyze these two groups separately — the famous and the non-famous? what might that tell us?take a look. two things leap out at me. first: "john." anyone here named john should thank your parents — and remind your kids to cut out your obituary when you're gone. and second: "help."we uncovered, many lessons from lives well-led, and what those people immortalized in print could teach us. the exercise was a fascinating testament to the kaleidoscope that is life, and even more fascinating was the fact that the overwhelming majority of obituaries featured people famous and non-famous, who did seemingly extraordinary things. they made a positive dent in the fabric of life. they helped.so ask yourselves as you go back to your daily lives: how am i using my talents to help society? because the most powerful lesson here is, if more people lived their lives trying to be famous in death, the world would be a much better place.thank you. <title = "Stories from a home for terminally ill children">
<tags = "['children', 'community', 'death', 'family', 'garden', 'happiness', 'health care', 'humanity', 'illness', 'innovation', 'life', 'parenting', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Pediatric psychologist">
i want to introduce you to some very wise kids that i've known, but first i want to introduce you to a camel. this is cassie, a therapy camel visiting one of our young patients in her room, which is pretty magical. a friend of mine raises camels at his ranch in the santa cruz mountains. he has about eight of them, and he started 30 years ago because he thought horses were too mundane. john is an out-of-the-box thinker, which explains why the two of us have been such good friends all of our lives. over the years, i've convinced him to shuttle those sweet furry beasts up to hang out with our sick kids from time to time. talking to john, i was surprised to learn that camels have an average life expectancy of 40 to 50 years. the life expectancy of many of the children with whom i work is less than a year.this is a picture of the george mark children's house, the first pediatric palliative respite care center to open in the united states. i founded it in 2004, after years of working as a psychologist on pediatric intensive care units, frustrated with the undignified deaths that so many children experienced and their families had to endure. as i sat with families whose children were at the end of their lives, i was acutely aware of our surroundings. while the elevated train rumbled overhead on its track, quite literally the room reverberated with each passing train car. the lights on the ward were fluorescent and too bright. monitors beeped, as did the elevator, noisily announcing its arrival. these families were experiencing some of the most excruciating moments of their lives, and i so wanted them to have a more peaceful place in which to say a last goodbye to their young daughters and sons. surely, i thought, there must be a better spot than a hospital intensive care unit for children at the end of their lives.our children's house is calm and nurturing. it's a place where families can stay together to enjoy quality time with their children, many of whom are there for respite stays, some with repeated visits over a span of many years. we call those kids our frequent flyers. rather than the bright, noisy quarters of the hospital, their rooms are calm and comfortable, with actual living spaces for the families, a sanctuary of gardens and a wonderful outdoor playground with special structures for children with physical limitations.this sweet baby lars came to us directly from a hospital intensive care unit. imagine hearing the heartbreaking news that none of us would ever want to hear. his parents had been told that lars had a brain anomaly that would keep him from ever swallowing, walking, talking or developing mentally. recognizing what little chance he had for survival, his parents chose to focus on the quality of time that they could spend together. they moved into one of our family apartments and treasured each day that they had, which were far too few. lars's life was brief, to be sure, mere weeks, but it was calm and comfortable. he went on hikes with his parents. the time that he spent in the pool with our aquatic therapist lessened the seizures he was experiencing and helped him to sleep at night. his family had a peaceful place in which to both celebrate his life and mourn his death.it has been five years since lars was with us, and in that time, his family has welcomed a daughter and another son. they are such a powerful testament to the positive outcome that specialized children's hospice care can create. their baby's physical discomfort was well managed, giving all of them the gift of time to be together in a beautiful place.i'm going to talk to you now about the elephant rather than the camel in the room. very few people want to talk about death, and even fewer about children's death. loss of a child, especially for those of us who have our own children, is frightening, more than frightening, paralyzing, debilitating, impossible. but what i've learned is this: children don't stop dying just because we the adults can't comprehend the injustice of losing them. and what's more, if we can be brave enough to face the possibility of death, even among the most innocent, we gain an unparalleled kind of wisdom.take crystal, for example. she was one of the first children to come for care after we opened our doors. she was nine when she arrived, and her neurologist expected that she might live another two weeks. she had an inoperable brain tumor, and her decline had really accelerated in the week before she came to us. after settling into her room, dressed entirely in pink and lavender, surrounded by the hello kitty accessories that she loved, she spent the next several days winning over the hearts of every staff member. bit by bit, her condition stabilized, and then to our astonishment, she actually improved. there were a variety of factors that contributed to crystal's improvement which we later came to call the "george mark bump," a lovely, not uncommon phenomenon where children outlive the prognoses of their illnesses if they're outside of the hospital. the calmer atmosphere of her surroundings, tasty meals that were fixed often to accommodate her requests, the resident pets, the therapy dog and rabbit spent lots of cozy time with crystal.after she had been with us for about a week, she called her grandmother, and she said, "gee, i'm staying in a great big house, and there's room for you to come, too. and guess what? you don't have to bring any quarters because the washer and dryer are free." crystal's grandmother soon arrived from out of town, and they spent the remaining four months of crystal's life enjoying very special days together. some days were special because crystal was outside in her wheelchair sitting by the fountain. for a little girl who had spent most of the year earlier in a hospital bed, being outside counting hummingbirds made for an amazing time with her grandma, and lots of laughter. other days were special because of the activities that our child life specialist created for her. crystal strung beads and made jewelry for everybody in the house. she painted a pumpkin to help decorate for halloween. she spent many excited days planning her tenth birthday, which of course none of us thought she would ever see. all of us wore pink boas for the occasion, and crystal, as you can see, queen for a day, wore a sparkly tiara.one hot morning, i arrived at work and crystal and her partner in crime, charlie, greeted me. with some help, they had set up a lemonade and cookie stand outside the front door, a very strategic location. i asked crystal the price of the cookie that i had selected, and she said, "three dollars." i said that seemed a bit high for one cookie. it was small. "i know," she acknowledged with a grin, "but i'm worth it."and therein lie the words of wisdom of a young girl whose brief life forever impacted mine. crystal was worth it, and shouldn't every child whose life is shortened by a horrific illness be worth it? together, all of us today can offer that same specialized care that crystal received by recognizing that children's respite and hospice care is a critical component missing from our healthcare landscape. it's also interesting to note that we are able to provide this care at about one third of the cost of a hospital intensive care unit, and our families don't see a bill. we are ever grateful to the supporters who believe in this important work that we're doing.the truth is that my colleagues and i and the parents and other family members who get to experience this special wisdom are in a unique position. there are only two freestanding pediatric hospices in the united states, although i'm happy to report that based on our model, there are 18 others under various stages of development. still, most of the children who die in the united states every year die in hospital rooms, surrounded by beeping machines and anxious, exhausted adults who have no other option but to say goodbye under those harsh, institutional lights and among virtual strangers. for comparison's sake, the united kingdom, which is a country with about one fifth the population of the united states, and about half the size of the state of california, has 54 hospice and respite centers. why is that? i've asked myself that question obviously many times. my best guess is that americans, with our positive can-do attitude hold the expectation that our medical care system will fix it, even though it may be a childhood illness for which there is no cure. we go to extraordinary measures to keep children alive when in fact the greatest kindness that we might give them would be a peaceful, pain-free end of life. the transition from cure to care remains a challenging one for many hospital physicians whose training has really been about saving lives, not about gently guiding the patient to the end of life. the dad of a sweet baby for whom we cared at the end of her life certainly captured this dichotomy when he reflected that there are a lot of people to help you bring an infant into the world but very few to help you usher a baby out.so what is the magic ingredient at george mark? the complex medical diagnoses that bring our young patients to us mean that their lives have often been restricted, some to a hospital bed for long periods of time, others to wheelchairs, still others to intensive courses of chemotherapy or rehab. we make a practice of ignoring those limitations. our default answer is "yes" and our default question is, "why not?" that's why we took a young boy who wasn't going to live for another baseball season to game 5 of the world series. that's why we have a talent show put on by the staff and kids for family and friends. who wouldn't be enchanted by a young boy playing a piano piece with his feet, because his arms are atrophied? that's why we have a prom every year. it's pretty magical. we started the prom after hearing a dad lament that he would never pin a boutonniere on his son's tuxedo lapel. the weeks before the dance, the house is in a flurry, and i don't know who's more excited, the staff or the kids. the night of the event involves rides in vintage cars, a walk on a red carpet into the great room, a terrific dj and a photographer at the ready to capture pictures of these attendees and their families. at the end of the evening this year, one of our young, delightful teenaged girls, caitlin, said to her mom, "that was the best night of my whole life." and that's just the point, to capture the best days and nights, to abolish limitations, to have your default answer be "yes" and your default question be, "why not?"ultimately life is too short, whether we live to be 85 years or just eight. trust me. better yet, trust sam. it's not by pretending that death doesn't exist that we keep the people, especially the little people that we love, safe. in the end, we can't control how long any of us lives. what we can control is how we spend our days, the spaces we create, the meaning and joy that we make. we cannot change the outcome, but we can change the journey. isn't it time to recognize that children deserve nothing less than our most uncompromising bravery and our wildest imagination.thank you. <title = ""Rollercoaster"">
<tags = "['guitar', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'singer']">
<occupation = "Singer, songwriter, actress">
(guitar)(singing)rollercoaster, carousel.where the highs are heaven, but the lows, oh, they can be hell.you can grab the ring, you can ring that bell,when the ride is over, you can never tell.people tell you this one thing — will make your life complete.so you, you give it everything you got and you wind up on the street. then one day you wake up,and they tell you "you're a queen,"but then you find that someone else is pulling on the strings.rollercoaster, carousel.where the highs are heaven, but the lows, oh, they can be hell.you can grab the ring, you can ring that bell,when the ride is over, you can never tell.the one you love, they love you — oh yeah — until the end of time.but lose your edge or lose your cool, they will drop you like a dime.everyone is crowding 'round when fortune is your friend.when your luck is running out, you're all alone again.rollercoaster, carousel.where the highs are heaven but the lows, oh, they can be hell.you can grab the ring, you can ring that bell, when the ride is over you can never tell.well, maybe i'm just cynical, and all these words are lies,but experience keeps telling me that the cautious one is wise.but caution makes you hesitate, and hesitate you're lost,so take your opportunities and never count the cost.rollercoaster, carousel. where the highs are heaven, but the lows, oh, they can be hell.you can grab the ring, you can ring that bell,when the ride is over — over, over, you can never, ever tell.rollercoaster, carousel, rollercoaster, yeah, yeah, yeah, carousel. carousel, carousel, carousel, carousel. michael pemberton. thank you so much.thank you.<title = "A scientific approach to the paranormal">
<tags = "['curiosity', 'death', 'fear', 'health', 'mind', 'science', 'society', 'sound', 'storytelling']">
<occupation = "Writer, radio host, comedian">
eight years ago, i was haunted by an evil spirit.i was 25 at the time, and i was living in a tiny house behind someone else's house in los angeles. it was this guest house, it had kind of been dilapidated, not taken care of for a long time. and one night, i was sitting there and i got this really spooky feeling, kind of the feeling like you're being watched. but no one was there except my two dogs, and they were just chewing their feet. and i looked around. no one was there. and i thought, ok, it's just my imagination. but the feeling just kept getting worse, and i started to feel this pressure in my chest, sort of like the feeling when you get bad news. but it started to sink lower and lower and almost hurt.and over the course of that week, this feeling got worse and worse, and i started to become convinced that something was there in my little guest house, haunting me.and i started to hear these sounds, this "whoosh," kind of whisper, like something passing through me. i called my best friend, claire, and said, "i know this is going to sound crazy, but, um ... i think there's a ghost in my house, and i need to get rid of it." and she said — she's very open-minded — and she said, "i don't think you're crazy. i think you just need to do a cleansing ritual." "so get some sage and burn it, and tell it to go away."so i said, "ok," and i went and i bought sage. i had never done this before, so i set the sage on fire, waved it about, and said, "go away! this is my house! i live here. you don't live here!" but the feeling stayed. nothing got better. and then i started to think, ok, well now this thing is probably just laughing at me, because it hasn't left, and i probably just look like this impotent, powerless thing that couldn't get it to go away.so every day i'd come home and you guys, this feeling got so bad that — i mean, i'm laughing at it now — but i would sit there in bed and cry every night. and the feeling on my chest got worse and worse. it was physically painful. and i even went to a psychiatrist and tried to get her to prescribe me medicine, and she wouldn't just because i don't have schizophrenia, ok. so finally i got on the internet, and i googled "hauntings." and i came upon this forum of ghost hunters. but these were a special kind of ghost hunters — they were skeptics. they believed that every case of ghosts that they had investigated so far had been explained away by science. and i was like, "ok, smart guys, this is what's happening to me, and if you have an explanation for me, i would love to hear it."and one of them said, "ok. um, have you heard of carbon monoxide poisoning?"and i said, "yeah. like, gas poisoning?"carbon monoxide poisoning is when you have a gas leak leaking into your home. i looked it up, and the symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning include a pressure on your chest, auditory hallucinations — whoosh — and an unexplained feeling of dread. so that night, i called the gas company. i said, "i have an emergency. i need you to come out. i don't want to get into the story now, but i need you to come out." they came out. i said, "i suspect a gas leak." they brought their carbon monoxide detector, and the man said, "it's a really good thing that you called us tonight, because you could have been dead very soon."thirty-seven percent of americans believe in haunted houses, and i wonder how many of them have been in one and how many of them have been in danger.so that haunting story has led me to my job. i'm an investigator, and i'm an investigator in two senses: i'm an investigative journalist, and i'm also an investigator of the claims of the paranormal and claims of the spiritual. and that means a few things. sometimes that means that i'm pretending to need an exorcism so i can get — yes, that's right! — so i can go to an exorcist and see if he's using gimmicks or psychological tricks to try to convince someone that they're possessed. sometimes that means i'm going undercover in a fringe group which i report on for a podcast that i co-host. and i've done over 70 investigations like this with my co-host, ross. i would love to tell you that nine times out of 10, science wins, saves the day, it's all explained. that's not true. the truth is, 10 times out of 10, science wins, it saves the day. and that doesn't mean there's no such thing as a mystery. of course there are mysteries, but a mystery is a mystery. it is not a ghost.now, i believe there are two kinds of truth, and it's taken me a while to get to this place, but i think this is right, so hear me out. i think there is outer truth and there's inner truth. so if you say to me, "there was a man named jesus and he once existed," that's outer truth, right? and we can go and look at the historical record. we can determine whether that seems to be true. and i would argue, it does seem to be true. if you say, "jesus rose from the dead," — ooh, trickier. i would say that's an outer-truth claim, because he physically rose or he didn't. i'm not going to get into whether he rose or he didn't, but i would say that's an outer-truth claim. it happened or it didn't happen. but if you say, "i don't care whether he rose from the dead. it's symbolically important to me, and that metaphor is so meaningful, so purposeful to me, and i'm not going to try to persuade you of it," now you've moved it from outer truth to inner truth, from science to art. and i think we have a tendency to not be clear about this, to try to move our inner truths to outer truths, or to not be fair about it to each other, and when people are telling us their inner truths, to try to make them defend them by outer-truth standards.so i'm talking here about outer truth, about objective things. and there was an objective reality in my haunted house, right? now that i've told you about the gas leak, i doubt a single person here would be like, "i still think there was a ghost, too" — because as soon as we have these scientific explanations, we know to give up the ghost. we use these things as stopgaps for things that we can't explain. we don't believe them because of evidence; we believe them because of a lack of evidence.so there is a group in los angeles called the independent investigations group, or the iig, and they do great work. they'll give a $10,000 prize to anyone who can show, under scientific conditions, that they have a paranormal ability. no one's done it yet, but they've had a couple people who claim that they were clairaudients, which means that they can hear voices either from the great beyond or they can read minds. and they had one person who was very sincere, who believed that he could read minds. so they set up a test with him, and this is the way it always works. the group says, "ok, we have a protocol, we have a way to scientifically test this. do you agree with it?" the person says yes. then they test it. it's very important that both sides agree. they did that, they tested him. they said, "ok, you know what? you weren't able to predict what lisa was thinking. it matched up about the same as chance. looks like you don't have the power."and that gave them the opportunity to compassionately sit down with him and have a very difficult discussion, which basically amounted to, "hey, we know you're sincere, and what that means is, you do hear something in your head."and that guy got to make the very difficult decision, but really the life-changing decision about whether to go get help. we're actually helping people to make these connections that maybe before seemed like otherworldly explanations, help draw us into reality and maybe change our lives for the better.now, on the other hand, maybe one time it'll turn out to be true. maybe we'll find out there are ghosts, and holy shit, it will be the best thing! and every time i do one of these investigations, i still get so excited, and i'm like 75 into them, and still i swear on number 76, i'm going to be like, "this is the one!" maybe i'm just eternally optimistic, but i hope i never lose this hope, and i invite you to take this same attitude when people share their outer beliefs with you. when talking about testable claims, respect them enough to ask these good questions. challenge and see how you can examine them together, because there's this idea that you can't respect a belief and still challenge it, but that's not true. when we jiggle the lock, when we test the claim, we're saying, ok, i respect you, i'm listening to what you're saying, i'm going to test it out with you. we've all had that experience where you're telling someone something, and they're like, "oh, that's really interesting, yeah," you know you're being had. but when someone says, "really? huh. sounds a little sketchy to me, but i'm listening," you at least know you're being engaged and respected. and that's the kind of attitude we should have with these claims. that's showing someone that you care what they're saying. that's respect.now, yes, most of these searches will come up empty, but that's how all of science works. every cure for cancer so far has not panned out, but we don't stop looking, for two reasons. because number one, the answer matters. whether it's looking at the afterlife or the paranormal or the cure for cancer, it all amounts to the same question: how long will we be here?and two, because looking for the truth, being open-minded, and being willing to be wrong and to change your whole worldview is awe-inspiring.i still get excited at ghost stories every single time. i still consider that every group i join might be right, and i hope i never lose that hope. let's all never lose that hope, because searching for what's out there helps us understand what's in here. and also, please have a carbon monoxide detector in your home.thank you. <title = "I grew up in the Westboro Baptist Church. Here's why I left">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'activism', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'compassion', 'empathy', 'faith', 'family', 'humanity', 'identity', 'motivation', 'peace', 'religion', 'social change', 'social media', 'society', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist">
i was a blue-eyed, chubby-cheeked five-year-old when i joined my family on the picket line for the first time. my mom made me leave my dolls in the minivan. i'd stand on a street corner in the heavy kansas humidity, surrounded by a few dozen relatives, with my tiny fists clutching a sign that i couldn't read yet: "gays are worthy of death." this was the beginning.our protests soon became a daily occurrence and an international phenomenon, and as a member of westboro baptist church, i became a fixture on picket lines across the country. the end of my antigay picketing career and life as i knew it, came 20 years later, triggered in part by strangers on twitter who showed me the power of engaging the other.in my home, life was framed as an epic spiritual battle between good and evil. the good was my church and its members, and the evil was everyone else. my church's antics were such that we were constantly at odds with the world, and that reinforced our otherness on a daily basis. "make a difference between the unclean and the clean," the verse says, and so we did. from baseball games to military funerals, we trekked across the country with neon protest signs in hand to tell others exactly how "unclean" they were and exactly why they were headed for damnation. this was the focus of our whole lives. this was the only way for me to do good in a world that sits in satan's lap. and like the rest of my 10 siblings, i believed what i was taught with all my heart, and i pursued westboro's agenda with a special sort of zeal.in 2009, that zeal brought me to twitter. initially, the people i encountered on the platform were just as hostile as i expected. they were the digital version of the screaming hordes i'd been seeing at protests since i was a kid. but in the midst of that digital brawl, a strange pattern developed. someone would arrive at my profile with the usual rage and scorn, i would respond with a custom mix of bible verses, pop culture references and smiley faces. they would be understandably confused and caught off guard, but then a conversation would ensue. and it was civil — full of genuine curiosity on both sides. how had the other come to such outrageous conclusions about the world?sometimes the conversation even bled into real life. people i'd sparred with on twitter would come out to the picket line to see me when i protested in their city. a man named david was one such person. he ran a blog called "jewlicious," and after several months of heated but friendly arguments online, he came out to see me at a picket in new orleans. he brought me a middle eastern dessert from jerusalem, where he lives, and i brought him kosher chocolate and held a "god hates jews" sign. there was no confusion about our positions, but the line between friend and foe was becoming blurred. we'd started to see each other as human beings, and it changed the way we spoke to one another.it took time, but eventually these conversations planted seeds of doubt in me. my friends on twitter took the time to understand westboro's doctrines, and in doing so, they were able to find inconsistencies i'd missed my entire life. why did we advocate the death penalty for gays when jesus said, "let he who is without sin cast the first stone?" how could we claim to love our neighbor while at the same time praying for god to destroy them? the truth is that the care shown to me by these strangers on the internet was itself a contradiction. it was growing evidence that people on the other side were not the demons i'd been led to believe.these realizations were life-altering. once i saw that we were not the ultimate arbiters of divine truth but flawed human beings, i couldn't pretend otherwise. i couldn't justify our actions — especially our cruel practice of protesting funerals and celebrating human tragedy. these shifts in my perspective contributed to a larger erosion of trust in my church, and eventually it made it impossible for me to stay.in spite of overwhelming grief and terror, i left westboro in 2012. in those days just after i left, the instinct to hide was almost paralyzing. i wanted to hide from the judgement of my family, who i knew would never speak to me again — people whose thoughts and opinions had meant everything to me. and i wanted to hide from the world i'd rejected for so long — people who had no reason at all to give me a second chance after a lifetime of antagonism. and yet, unbelievably, they did.the world had access to my past because it was all over the internet — thousands of tweets and hundreds of interviews, everything from local tv news to "the howard stern show" — but so many embraced me with open arms anyway. i wrote an apology for the harm i'd caused, but i also knew that an apology could never undo any of it. all i could do was try to build a new life and find a way somehow to repair some of the damage. people had every reason to doubt my sincerity, but most of them didn't. and — given my history, it was more than i could've hoped for — forgiveness and the benefit of the doubt. it still amazes me.i spent my first year away from home adrift with my younger sister, who had chosen to leave with me. we walked into an abyss, but we were shocked to find the light and a way forward in the same communities we'd targeted for so long. david, my "jewlicious" friend from twitter, invited us to spend time among a jewish community in los angeles. we slept on couches in the home of a hasidic rabbi and his wife and their four kids — the same rabbi that i'd protested three years earlier with a sign that said, "your rabbi is a whore." we spent long hours talking about theology and judaism and life while we washed dishes in their kosher kitchen and chopped vegetables for dinner. they treated us like family. they held nothing against us, and again i was astonished.that period was full of turmoil, but one part i've returned to often is a surprising realization i had during that time — that it was a relief and a privilege to let go of the harsh judgments that instinctively ran through my mind about nearly every person i saw. i realized that now i needed to learn. i needed to listen.this has been at the front of my mind lately, because i can't help but see in our public discourse so many of the same destructive impulses that ruled my former church. we celebrate tolerance and diversity more than at any other time in memory, and still we grow more and more divided. we want good things — justice, equality, freedom, dignity, prosperity — but the path we've chosen looks so much like the one i walked away from four years ago. we've broken the world into us and them, only emerging from our bunkers long enough to lob rhetorical grenades at the other camp. we write off half the country as out-of-touch liberal elites or racist misogynist bullies. no nuance, no complexity, no humanity. even when someone does call for empathy and understanding for the other side, the conversation nearly always devolves into a debate about who deserves more empathy. and just as i learned to do, we routinely refuse to acknowledge the flaws in our positions or the merits in our opponent's. compromise is anathema. we even target people on our own side when they dare to question the party line. this path has brought us cruel, sniping, deepening polarization, and even outbreaks of violence. i remember this path. it will not take us where we want to go.what gives me hope is that we can do something about this. the good news is that it's simple, and the bad news is that it's hard. we have to talk and listen to people we disagree with. it's hard because we often can't fathom how the other side came to their positions. it's hard because righteous indignation, that sense of certainty that ours is the right side, is so seductive. it's hard because it means extending empathy and compassion to people who show us hostility and contempt. the impulse to respond in kind is so tempting, but that isn't who we want to be. we can resist. and i will always be inspired to do so by those people i encountered on twitter, apparent enemies who became my beloved friends. and in the case of one particularly understanding and generous guy, my husband. there was nothing special about the way i responded to him. what was special was their approach. i thought about it a lot over the past few years and i found four things they did differently that made real conversation possible. these four steps were small but powerful, and i do everything i can to employ them in difficult conversations today.the first is don't assume bad intent. my friends on twitter realized that even when my words were aggressive and offensive, i sincerely believed i was doing the right thing. assuming ill motives almost instantly cuts us off from truly understanding why someone does and believes as they do. we forget that they're a human being with a lifetime of experience that shaped their mind, and we get stuck on that first wave of anger, and the conversation has a very hard time ever moving beyond it. but when we assume good or neutral intent, we give our minds a much stronger framework for dialogue.the second is ask questions. when we engage people across ideological divides, asking questions helps us map the disconnect between our differing points of view. that's important because we can't present effective arguments if we don't understand where the other side is actually coming from and because it gives them an opportunity to point out flaws in our positions. but asking questions serves another purpose; it signals to someone that they're being heard. when my friends on twitter stopped accusing and started asking questions, i almost automatically mirrored them. their questions gave me room to speak, but they also gave me permission to ask them questions and to truly hear their responses. it fundamentally changed the dynamic of our conversation.the third is stay calm. this takes practice and patience, but it's powerful. at westboro, i learned not to care how my manner of speaking affected others. i thought my rightness justified my rudeness — harsh tones, raised voices, insults, interruptions — but that strategy is ultimately counterproductive. dialing up the volume and the snark is natural in stressful situations, but it tends to bring the conversation to an unsatisfactory, explosive end. when my husband was still just an anonymous twitter acquaintance, our discussions frequently became hard and pointed, but we always refused to escalate. instead, he would change the subject. he would tell a joke or recommend a book or gently excuse himself from the conversation. we knew the discussion wasn't over, just paused for a time to bring us back to an even keel. people often lament that digital communication makes us less civil, but this is one advantage that online conversations have over in-person ones. we have a buffer of time and space between us and the people whose ideas we find so frustrating. we can use that buffer. instead of lashing out, we can pause, breathe, change the subject or walk away, and then come back to it when we're ready.and finally ... make the argument. this might seem obvious, but one side effect of having strong beliefs is that we sometimes assume that the value of our position is or should be obvious and self-evident, that we shouldn't have to defend our positions because they're so clearly right and good that if someone doesn't get it, it's their problem — that it's not my job to educate them. but if it were that simple, we would all see things the same way. as kind as my friends on twitter were, if they hadn't actually made their arguments, it would've been so much harder for me to see the world in a different way. we are all a product of our upbringing, and our beliefs reflect our experiences. we can't expect others to spontaneously change their own minds. if we want change, we have to make the case for it.my friends on twitter didn't abandon their beliefs or their principles — only their scorn. they channeled their infinitely justifiable offense and came to me with pointed questions tempered with kindness and humor. they approached me as a human being, and that was more transformative than two full decades of outrage, disdain and violence. i know that some might not have the time or the energy or the patience for extensive engagement, but as difficult as it can be, reaching out to someone we disagree with is an option that is available to all of us. and i sincerely believe that we can do hard things, not just for them but for us and our future. escalating disgust and intractable conflict are not what we want for ourselves, or our country or our next generation.my mom said something to me a few weeks before i left westboro, when i was desperately hoping there was a way i could stay with my family. people i have loved with every pulse of my heart since even before i was that chubby-cheeked five-year-old, standing on a picket line holding a sign i couldn't read. she said, "you're just a human being, my dear, sweet child." she was asking me to be humble — not to question but to trust god and my elders. but to me, she was missing the bigger picture — that we're all just human beings. that we should be guided by that most basic fact, and approach one another with generosity and compassion.each one of us contributes to the communities and the cultures and the societies that we make up. the end of this spiral of rage and blame begins with one person who refuses to indulge these destructive, seductive impulses. we just have to decide that it's going to start with us.thank you. <title = "To raise brave girls, encourage adventure">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'adventure', 'children', 'community', 'education', 'family', 'fear', 'identity', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'play', 'social change', 'society', 'teaching', 'women']">
<occupation = "Author">
when i was a kid, i was obsessed with the guinness book of world records, and i really wanted to set a world record myself. but there was just one small problem: i had absolutely no talent. so i decided to set a world record in something that demanded absolutely no skill at all. i decided to set a world record in crawling. now, the record at the time was 12 and a half miles, and for some reason, this seemed totally manageable. i recruited my friend anne, and together we decided, we didn't even need to train. and on the day of our record attempt, we put furniture pads on the outside of our good luck jeans and we set off, and right away, we were in trouble, because the denim was against our skin and it began to chafe, and soon our knees were being chewed up. hours in, it began to rain. then, anne dropped out. then, it got dark. now, by now, my knees were bleeding through my jeans, and i was hallucinating from the cold and the pain and the monotony. and to give you an idea of the suffer-fest that i was undergoing, the first lap around the high school track took 10 minutes. the last lap took almost 30.after 12 hours of crawling, i stopped, and i had gone eight and a half miles. so i was short of the 12-and-a-half-mile record.now, for many years, i thought this was a story of abject failure, but today i see it differently, because when i was attempting the world record, i was doing three things. i was getting outside my comfort zone, i was calling upon my resilience, and i was finding confidence in myself and my own decisions. i didn't know it then, but those are not the attributes of failure. those are the attributes of bravery.now, in 1989, at the age of 26, i became a san francisco firefighter, and i was the 15th woman in a department of 1,500 men. and as you can imagine, when i arrived there were many doubts about whether we could do the job. so even though i was a 5'10", 150-pound collegiate rower, and someone who could endure 12 hours of searing knee pain — i knew i still had to prove my strength and fitness.so one day a call came in for a fire, and sure enough, when my engine group pulled up, there was black smoke billowing from a building off an alleyway. and i was with a big guy named skip, and he was on the nozzle, and i was right behind, and it was a typical sort of fire. it was smoky, it was hot, and all of a sudden, there was an explosion, and skip and i were blown backwards, my mask was knocked sideways, and there was this moment of confusion. and then i picked myself up, i groped for the nozzle, and i did what a firefighter was supposed to do: i lunged forward, opened up the water and i tackled the fire myself. the explosion had been caused by a water heater, so nobody was hurt, and ultimately it was not a big deal, but later skip came up to me and said, "nice job, caroline," in this surprised sort of voice. and i was confused, because the fire hadn't been difficult physically, so why was he looking at me with something like astonishment? and then it became clear: skip, who was by the way a really nice guy and an excellent firefighter, not only thought that women could not be strong, he thought that they could not be brave either. and he wasn't the only one. friends, acquaintances and strangers, men and women throughout my career ask me over and over, "caroline, all that fire, all that danger, aren't you scared?" honestly, i never heard a male firefighter asked this. and i became curious. why wasn't bravery expected of women?now, the answer began to come when a friend of mine lamented to me that her young daughter was a big scaredy-cat, and so i began to notice, and yes, the daughter was anxious, but more than that, the parents were anxious. most of what they said to her when she was outside began with, "be careful," "watch out," or "no." now, my friends were not bad parents. they were just doing what most parents do, which is cautioning their daughters much more than they caution their sons.there was a study involving a playground fire pole, ironically, in which researchers saw that little girls were very likely to be warned by both their moms and dads about the fire pole's risk, and if the little girls still wanted to play on the fire pole, a parent was very likely to assist her. but the little boys? they were encouraged to play on the fire pole despite any trepidations that they might have, and often the parents offered guidance on how to use it on their own. so what message does this send to both boys and girls? well, that girls are fragile and more in need of help, and that boys can and should master difficult tasks by themselves. it says that girls should be fearful and boys should be gutsy.now, the irony is that at this young age, girls and boys are actually very alike physically. in fact, girls are often stronger until puberty, and more mature. and yet we adults act as if girls are more fragile and more in need of help, and they can't handle as much. this is the message that we absorb as kids, and this is the message that fully permeates as we grow up. we women believe it, men believe it, and guess what? as we become parents, we pass it on to our children, and so it goes.well, so now i had my answer. this is why women, even firewomen, were expected to be scared. this is why women often are scared.now, i know some of you won't believe me when i tell you this, but i am not against fear. i know it's an important emotion, and it's there to keep us safe. but the problem is when fear is the primary reaction that we teach and encourage in girls whenever they face something outside their comfort zone.so i was a paraglider pilot for many years — and a paraglider is a parachute-like wing, and it does fly very well, but to many people i realize it looks just like a bedsheet with strings attached. and i spent a lot of time on mountaintops inflating this bedsheet, running off and flying. and i know what you're thinking. you're like, caroline, a little fear would make sense here. and you're right, it does. i assure you, i did feel fear. but on that mountaintop, waiting for the wind to come in just right, i felt so many other things, too: exhilaration, confidence. i knew i was a good pilot. i knew the conditions were good, or i wouldn't be there. i knew how great it was going to be a thousand feet in the air. so yes, fear was there, but i would take a good hard look at it, assess just how relevant it was and then put it where it belonged, which was more often than not behind my exhilaration, my anticipation and my confidence. so i'm not against fear. i'm just pro-bravery.now, i'm not saying your girls must be firefighters or that they should be paragliders, but i am saying that we are raising our girls to be timid, even helpless, and it begins when we caution them against physical risk. the fear we learn and the experiences we don't stay with us as we become women and morphs into all those things that we face and try to shed: our hesitation in speaking out, our deference so that we can be liked and our lack of confidence in our own decisions.so how do we become brave? well, here's the good news. bravery is learned, and like anything learned, it just needs to be practiced. so first, we have to take a deep breath and encourage our girls to skateboard, climb trees and clamber around on that playground fire pole. this is what my own mother did. she didn't know it then, but researchers have a name for this. they call it risky play, and studies show that risky play is really important for kids, all kids, because it teaches hazard assessment, it teaches delayed gratification, it teaches resilience, it teaches confidence. in other words, when kids get outside and practice bravery, they learn valuable life lessons.second, we have to stop cautioning our girls willy-nilly. so notice next time you say, "watch out, you're going to get hurt," or, "don't do that, it's dangerous." and remember that often what you're really telling her is that she shouldn't be pushing herself, that she's really not good enough, that she should be afraid.third, we women have to start practicing bravery, too. we cannot teach our girls until we teach ourselves. so here's another thing: fear and exhilaration feel very similar — the shaky hands, the heightened heart rate, the nervous tension, and i'm betting that for many of you the last time you thought you were scared out of your wits, you may have been feeling mostly exhilaration, and now you've missed an opportunity. so practice. and while girls should be getting outside to learn to be gutsy, i get that adults don't want to get on hoverboards or climb trees, so we all should be practicing at home, in the office and even right here getting up the guts to talk to someone that you really admire.finally, when your girl is, let's say, on her bike on the top of the steep hill that she insists she's too scared to go down, guide her to access her bravery. ultimately, maybe that hill really is too steep, but she'll come to that conclusion through courage, not fear. because this is not about the steep hill in front of her. this is about the life ahead of her and that she has the tools to handle and assess all the dangers that we cannot protect her from, all the challenges that we won't be there to guide her through, everything that our girls here and around the world face in their future.so by the way, the world record for crawling today — is 35.18 miles, and i would really love to see a girl go break that. <title = "Why women should tell the stories of humanity">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'activism', 'art', 'children', 'communication', 'entertainment', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'literature', 'motivation', 'performance art', 'poetry', 'social change', 'theater', 'women']">
<occupation = "Theater director, producer">
why do we think that stories by men are deemed to be of universal importance, and stories by women are thought to be merely about women?my grandmother left school when she was 12. she had 14 children. my mother left school when she was 15. she was a secretary. i graduated from university to become a theater director, and that progress is entirely to do with the fact that people i'll never meet fought for women to have rights, get the vote, get education, have progress. and i'm determined to do the same, and obviously you are, too. why not? so i started a festival called wow, women of the world, seven years ago, and it's now in 20 countries across five continents. and one of those countries is somaliland in africa. so i traveled there last year, and part of the joy i had in going there was going to these caves. the laas geel caves. now, these caves contain some of the oldest cave paintings in the world. these paintings are thought to be round about 9,000 to 11,000 years old. art: what humanity has done ever since it evolved. it's how we speak about ourselves, how we understand our identity, how we look at our surroundings, who we find out about each other because of the meaning of our lives. that's what art is for.so look at this little picture. i think it's a little girl. i thought it was a bit like me when i was a little girl. and i thought, well, who painted this joyful, youthful figure? and i asked the curator of the caves. i said, "tell me about the men and women who painted these." and he looked at me absolutely askance, and he said, "women didn't paint these pictures." and i said, "well, it was 11,000 years ago." i said, "how do you know?" and he said, "women don't do these things. men made these marks. women don't."now, i wasn't really surprised, because that's an attitude that i've seen continuously all my life as a theater maker. we are told that divine knowledge comes down through the masculine, whether it be to the imam, the priest, the rabbi, the holy man. similarly, we're told that creative genius resides in the masculine, that it is the masculine that will be able to tell us about who we really are, that the masculine will tell the universal story on behalf of all of us, whereas women artists will really just talk about women's experiences, women's issues only really relevant to women and of passing interest to men — and really only some men. and it's that conviction, that that we are taught, that i think colors so much of whether we're prepared to believe that women's stories really matter. and unless we're prepared to believe that women's stories really matter, then women's rights don't really matter, and then change can't really come.i want to tell you about two examples of stories that are thought to be of universal importance: "e.t." and "hamlet." so i took my two children when they were little — caroline was eight and robby was five — to see "e.t." and it's a fantastic story of this little alien who ends up in an american family with a mum, two brothers and a sister, but he wants to go home. not only that, but some really bad scientists want to do some experiments on him, and they're looking for him. so the children have a plot. they decide they're going to take him back to his spaceship as soon as they can, and they plop him in a bicycle basket, and off they ride. but unfortunately, the baddies have found out, and they're catching up and they've got sirens and they've got their guns, they've got the loud-hailers, it's terribly frightening, and they're closing up on the children, and the children are never going to make it. and then all of a sudden, magically, the bikes fly up in the air, over the clouds, over the moon, and they're going to save "e.t."so i turn to see my children's faces, and robby is enraptured, he's there with them, he's saving e.t., he's a happy boy. and i turn to caroline, and she's crying her eyes out. and i said, "what's the matter?" and she said, "why can't i save e.t.? why can't i come?" and then all of a sudden i realized: they weren't children; they were boys — all boys. and caroline, who had invested so much in e.t., well, she wasn't invited to save him, and she felt humiliated and spurned.so i wrote to steven spielberg —  and i said, "i don't know if you understand the psychological importance of what's happened, and are you prepared to pay for the therapy bills?" twenty years later, i haven't had a word back from him, but i'm still hopeful. but i thought it was interesting, because if you read reviews of what he intended with e.t., he says very specifically, "i wanted the world to understand that we should love and embrace difference." but somehow he didn't include the idea of girls' difference in this thinking. he thought he was writing a story about all humanity. caroline thought he was marginalizing half of humanity. he thought he was writing a story about human goodness; she thought he was writing a lad's heroic adventure.and this is common. men feel they have been given the mantle for universal communication, but of course, how could they be? they are writing from male experience through male's eyes. we have to have a look at this ourselves. we have to be prepared to go back through all our books and our films, all our favorite things, and say, "actually, this is written by a male artist — not an artist. we have to see that so many of these stories are written through a male perspective. which is fine, but then females need to have 50 percent of the rights for the stage, the film, the novel, the place of creativity.let me talk about "hamlet." to be or not to be. that is the question. but it's not my question. my question is: why was i taught as a young woman that this was the quintessential example of human dilemma and human experience? it's a marvelous story, but actually, it's about a young man fearful that he won't be able to make it as a powerful figure in a male world unless he takes revenge for his father's murder. he talks a great deal to us about suicide being an option, but the reality is that the person who actually commits suicide, ophelia, after she's been humiliated and abused by him, never gets a chance to talk to the audience about her feelings. and then when he's finished with ophelia, he turns on his mum, because basically she has the audacity to fall in love with his uncle and enjoy sex. it is a great story, but it is a story about male conflict, male dilemma, male struggle. but i was told this was the story of human beings, despite the fact that it only had two women in it. and unless i reeducate myself, i am always going to think that women's stories matter less than men's. a woman could have written "hamlet," but she would have written it differently, and it wouldn't have had global recognition. as the writer margaret atwood says, "when a man writes about doing the dishes, it's realism. when a woman writes about doing it, it's an unfortunate genetic disposition." now, this is not just something that belongs to then. i mean, when i was a young girl, wanting desperately to be a theater director, this is what my male lecturer said to me: "well, there are three women directors in britain," he said, "jude." "there's joan knight, who's a lesbian, there's joan littlewood, who's retired, and there's buzz goodbody, who's just killed herself. so, which of those three would you like to be?" now, leaving aside the disgusting slur on gay women, the fact is, he wanted to humiliate me. he thought it was silly that i wanted to be a director. and i told my friend marin alsop, the conductor, and she said, "oh yes, well, my music teacher said exactly the same. he said, 'women don't conduct.'" but all these years later, we've made our mark. you think, "well, it'll be different now." i'm afraid it's not different now. the current head of the paris conservatoire said recently, "it takes great physical strength to conduct a symphony, and women are too weak." the artist george baselitz said, "well, the fact is women can't paint. well — they can't paint very well."the writer v.s. naipaul said two years ago, "i can read two paragraphs and know immediately if it's written by a woman, and i just stop reading, because it's not worthy of me."audience: whoa!and it goes on.we have to find a way of stopping young girls and women feeling not only that their story doesn't matter, but they're not allowed to be the storyteller. because once you feel that you can't stand in the central space and speak on behalf of the world, you will feel that you can offer your goods up to a small, select group. you will tend to do smaller work on smaller stages, your economic power will be less, your reach of audiences will be less, and your credit will be less as an artist. and we do finally give artists these incredible, prominent spaces in the world, because they are our storytellers.now, why should it matter to you if you're not an artist? supposing you're an accountant or an entrepreneur or a medic or a scientist: should you care about women artists? absolutely, you must, because as you can see from the cave paintings, all civilizations, all of humanity have relied upon artists to tell the human story, and if the human story is finally told by men, take my word for it, it will be about men.so let's make a change. let's make a change to all our institutions, and not just in the west. don't forget — this message of incapability of women to hold creative genius is being told to girls and women in nigeria, in china, in russia, in indonesia. all over the world, girls and women are being told that they can't finally hold the idea of creative inspiration. and i want to ask you: do you believe that? do you believe that women can be a creative genius?(applause and cheers)well then, please go forward, support women artists, buy their work, insist that their voices are heard, find platforms on which their voices will be made. and remember this: that in a sense, if we're going to get past this moment of a world where we know that we are unequal, it's artists who have to imagine a different world. and i'm calling on all artists, women and men, to imagine a gender-equal world. let's paint it. let's draw it. let's write about it. let's film it. and if we could imagine it, then we would have the energy and the stamina to work towards it.when i see this little girl, 11,000 years ago, i want to know that the little girl now can stand there and think she's entitled to her dreams, she's entitled to her destiny and she's entitled to speak on behalf of the whole world, be recognized for it and applauded.thank you. <title = "How I'm fighting bias in algorithms">
<tags = "['AI', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'algorithm', 'code', 'data', 'identity', 'inequality', 'innovation', 'product design', 'programming', 'race', 'software', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Poet of code">
hello, i'm joy, a poet of code, on a mission to stop an unseen force that's rising, a force that i called "the coded gaze," my term for algorithmic bias.algorithmic bias, like human bias, results in unfairness. however, algorithms, like viruses, can spread bias on a massive scale at a rapid pace. algorithmic bias can also lead to exclusionary experiences and discriminatory practices. let me show you what i mean.(video) joy buolamwini: hi, camera. i've got a face. can you see my face? no-glasses face? you can see her face. what about my face? i've got a mask. can you see my mask?joy buolamwini: so how did this happen? why am i sitting in front of a computer in a white mask, trying to be detected by a cheap webcam? well, when i'm not fighting the coded gaze as a poet of code, i'm a graduate student at the mit media lab, and there i have the opportunity to work on all sorts of whimsical projects, including the aspire mirror, a project i did so i could project digital masks onto my reflection. so in the morning, if i wanted to feel powerful, i could put on a lion. if i wanted to be uplifted, i might have a quote. so i used generic facial recognition software to build the system, but found it was really hard to test it unless i wore a white mask.unfortunately, i've run into this issue before. when i was an undergraduate at georgia tech studying computer science, i used to work on social robots, and one of my tasks was to get a robot to play peek-a-boo, a simple turn-taking game where partners cover their face and then uncover it saying, "peek-a-boo!" the problem is, peek-a-boo doesn't really work if i can't see you, and my robot couldn't see me. but i borrowed my roommate's face to get the project done, submitted the assignment, and figured, you know what, somebody else will solve this problem.not too long after, i was in hong kong for an entrepreneurship competition. the organizers decided to take participants on a tour of local start-ups. one of the start-ups had a social robot, and they decided to do a demo. the demo worked on everybody until it got to me, and you can probably guess it. it couldn't detect my face. i asked the developers what was going on, and it turned out we had used the same generic facial recognition software. halfway around the world, i learned that algorithmic bias can travel as quickly as it takes to download some files off of the internet.so what's going on? why isn't my face being detected? well, we have to look at how we give machines sight. computer vision uses machine learning techniques to do facial recognition. so how this works is, you create a training set with examples of faces. this is a face. this is a face. this is not a face. and over time, you can teach a computer how to recognize other faces. however, if the training sets aren't really that diverse, any face that deviates too much from the established norm will be harder to detect, which is what was happening to me.but don't worry — there's some good news. training sets don't just materialize out of nowhere. we actually can create them. so there's an opportunity to create full-spectrum training sets that reflect a richer portrait of humanity.now you've seen in my examples how social robots was how i found out about exclusion with algorithmic bias. but algorithmic bias can also lead to discriminatory practices. across the us, police departments are starting to use facial recognition software in their crime-fighting arsenal. georgetown law published a report showing that one in two adults in the us — that's 117 million people — have their faces in facial recognition networks. police departments can currently look at these networks unregulated, using algorithms that have not been audited for accuracy. yet we know facial recognition is not fail proof, and labeling faces consistently remains a challenge. you might have seen this on facebook. my friends and i laugh all the time when we see other people mislabeled in our photos. but misidentifying a suspected criminal is no laughing matter, nor is breaching civil liberties.machine learning is being used for facial recognition, but it's also extending beyond the realm of computer vision. in her book, "weapons of math destruction," data scientist cathy o'neil talks about the rising new wmds — widespread, mysterious and destructive algorithms that are increasingly being used to make decisions that impact more aspects of our lives. so who gets hired or fired? do you get that loan? do you get insurance? are you admitted into the college you wanted to get into? do you and i pay the same price for the same product purchased on the same platform?law enforcement is also starting to use machine learning for predictive policing. some judges use machine-generated risk scores to determine how long an individual is going to spend in prison. so we really have to think about these decisions. are they fair? and we've seen that algorithmic bias doesn't necessarily always lead to fair outcomes.so what can we do about it? well, we can start thinking about how we create more inclusive code and employ inclusive coding practices. it really starts with people. so who codes matters. are we creating full-spectrum teams with diverse individuals who can check each other's blind spots? on the technical side, how we code matters. are we factoring in fairness as we're developing systems? and finally, why we code matters. we've used tools of computational creation to unlock immense wealth. we now have the opportunity to unlock even greater equality if we make social change a priority and not an afterthought. and so these are the three tenets that will make up the "incoding" movement. who codes matters, how we code matters and why we code matters.so to go towards incoding, we can start thinking about building platforms that can identify bias by collecting people's experiences like the ones i shared, but also auditing existing software. we can also start to create more inclusive training sets. imagine a "selfies for inclusion" campaign where you and i can help developers test and create more inclusive training sets. and we can also start thinking more conscientiously about the social impact of the technology that we're developing.to get the incoding movement started, i've launched the algorithmic justice league, where anyone who cares about fairness can help fight the coded gaze. on codedgaze.com, you can report bias, request audits, become a tester and join the ongoing conversation, #codedgaze.so i invite you to join me in creating a world where technology works for all of us, not just some of us, a world where we value inclusion and center social change.thank you. but i have one question: will you join me in the fight? <title = "Beautiful new words to describe obscure emotions">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'beauty', 'communication', 'creativity', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'invention', 'language', 'potential', 'relationships', 'society', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer">
today i want to talk about the meaning of words, how we define them and how they, almost as revenge, define us.the english language is a magnificent sponge. i love the english language. i'm glad that i speak it. but for all that, it has a lot of holes. in greek, there's a word, "lachesism" which is the hunger for disaster. you know, when you see a thunderstorm on the horizon and you just find yourself rooting for the storm. in mandarin, they have a word "yù yī" — i'm not pronouncing that correctly — which means the longing to feel intensely again the way you did when you were a kid. in polish, they have a word "jouska" which is the kind of hypothetical conversation that you compulsively play out in your head. and finally, in german, of course in german, they have a word called "zielschmerz" which is the dread of getting what you want. finally fulfilling a lifelong dream. i'm german myself, so i know exactly what that feels like.now, i'm not sure if i would use any of these words as i go about my day, but i'm really glad they exist. but the only reason they exist is because i made them up.i am the author of "the dictionary of obscure sorrows," which i've been writing for the last seven years. and the whole mission of the project is to find holes in the language of emotion and try to fill them so that we have a way of talking about all those human peccadilloes and quirks of the human condition that we all feel but may not think to talk about because we don't have the words to do it.and about halfway through this project, i defined "sonder," the idea that we all think of ourselves as the main character and everyone else is just extras. but in reality, we're all the main character, and you yourself are an extra in someone else's story. and so as soon as i published that, i got a lot of response from people saying, "thank you for giving voice to something i had felt all my life but there was no word for that." so it made them feel less alone. that's the power of words, to make us feel less alone.and it was not long after that that i started to notice sonder being used earnestly in conversations online, and not long after i actually noticed it, i caught it next to me in an actual conversation in person. there is no stranger feeling than making up a word and then seeing it take on a mind of its own. i don't have a word for that yet, but i will. i'm working on it.i started to think about what makes words real, because a lot of people ask me, the most common thing i got from people is, "well, are these words made up? i don't really understand." and i didn't really know what to tell them because once sonder started to take off, who am i to say what words are real and what aren't. and so i sort of felt like steve jobs, who described his epiphany as when he realized that most of us, as we go through the day, we just try to avoid bouncing against the walls too much and just sort of get on with things. but once you realize that people — that this world was built by people no smarter than you, then you can reach out and touch those walls and even put your hand through them and realize that you have the power to change it.and when people ask me, "are these words real?" i had a variety of answers that i tried out. some of them made sense. some of them didn't. but one of them i tried out was, "well, a word is real if you want it to be real." the way that this path is real because people wanted it to be there. it happens on college campuses all the time. it's called a "desire path." but then i decided, what people are really asking when they're asking if a word is real, they're really asking, "well, how many brains will this give me access to?" because i think that's a lot of how we look at language. a word is essentially a key that gets us into certain people's heads. and if it gets us into one brain, it's not really worth it, not really worth knowing. two brains, eh, it depends on who it is. a million brains, ok, now we're talking. and so a real word is one that gets you access to as many brains as you can. that's what makes it worth knowing.incidentally, the realest word of all by this measure is this.[o.k.]that's it. the realest word we have. that is the closest thing we have to a master key. that's the most commonly understood word in the world, no matter where you are. the problem with that is, no one seems to know what those two letters stand for. which is kind of weird, right? i mean, it could be a misspelling of "all correct," i guess, or "old kinderhook." no one really seems to know, but the fact that it doesn't matter says something about how we add meaning to words. the meaning is not in the words themselves. we're the ones that pour ourselves into it.and i think, when we're all searching for meaning in our lives, and searching for the meaning of life, i think words have something to do with that. and i think if you're looking for the meaning of something, the dictionary is a decent place to start. it brings a sense of order to a very chaotic universe. our view of things is so limited that we have to come up with patterns and shorthands and try to figure out a way to interpret it and be able to get on with our day. we need words to contain us, to define ourselves.i think a lot of us feel boxed in by how we use these words. we forget that words are made up. it's not just my words. all words are made up, but not all of them mean something. we're all just sort of trapped in our own lexicons that don't necessarily correlate with people who aren't already like us, and so i think i feel us drifting apart a little more every year, the more seriously we take words.because remember, words are not real. they don't have meaning. we do.and i'd like to leave you with a reading from one of my favorite philosophers, bill watterson, who created "calvin and hobbes." he said, "creating a life that reflects your values and satisfies your soul is a rare achievement. to invent your own life's meaning is not easy, but it is still allowed, and i think you'll be happier for the trouble."thank you. <title = "A burial practice that nourishes the planet">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'animals', 'bacteria', 'choice', 'death', 'ecology', 'environment', 'family', 'green', 'humanity', 'nature', 'pollution', 'potential', 'sanitation', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Progressive mortician">
when i die, i would like for my body to be laid out to be eaten by animals. having your body laid out to be eaten by animals is not for everyone. maybe you have already had the end-of-life talk with your family and decided on, i don't know, cremation. and in the interest of full disclosure, what i am proposing for my dead body is not strictly legal at the moment, but it's not without precedent.we've been laying out our dead for all of human history; it's call exposure burial. in fact, it's likely happening right now as we speak. in the mountainous regions of tibet, they practice "sky burial," a ritual where the body is left to be consumed by vultures. in mumbai, in india, those who follow the parsi religion put their dead in structures called "towers of silence." these are interesting cultural tidbits, but they just haven't really been that popular in the western world — they're not what you'd expect.in america, our death traditions have come to be chemical embalming, followed by burial at your local cemetery, or, more recently, cremation. i myself, am a recent vegetarian, which means i spent the first 30 years or so of my life frantically inhaling animals — as many as i could get my hands on. why, when i die, should they not have their turn with me? am i not an animal? biologically speaking, are we not all, in this room, animals? accepting the fact that we are animals has some potentially terrifying consequences. it means accepting that we are doomed to decay and die, just like any other creature on earth.for the last nine years, i've worked in the funeral industry, first as a crematory operator, then as a mortician and most recently, as the owner of my own funeral home. and i have some good news: if you're looking to avoid the whole "doomed to decay and die" thing: you will have all the help in the world in that avoidance from the funeral industry.it's a multi-billion-dollar industry, and its economic model is based on the principle of protection, sanitation and beautification of the corpse. whether they mean to or not, the funeral industry promotes this idea of human exceptionalism. it doesn't matter what it takes, how much it costs, how bad it is for the environment, we're going to do it because humans are worth it! it ignores the fact that death can be an emotionally messy and complex affair, and that there is beauty in decay — beauty in the natural return to the earth from whence we came. now, i don't want you to get me wrong — i absolutely understand the importance of ritual, especially when it comes to the people that we love. but we have to be able to create and practice this ritual without harming the environment, which is why we need new options.so let's return to the idea of protection, sanitation and beautification. we'll start with a dead body. the funeral industry will protect your dead body by offering to sell your family a casket made of hardwood or metal with a rubber sealant. at the cemetery, on the day of burial, that casket will be lowered into a large concrete or metal vault. we're wasting all of these resources — concretes, metal, hardwoods — hiding them in vast underground fortresses. when you choose burial at the cemetery, your dead body is not coming anywhere near the dirt that surrounds it. food for worms you are not.next, the industry will sanitize your body through embalming: the chemical preservation of the dead. this procedure drains your blood and replaces it with a toxic, cancer-causing formaldehyde. they say they do this for the public health because the dead body can be dangerous, but the doctors in this room will tell you that that claim would only apply if the person had died of some wildly infectious disease, like ebola. even human decomposition, which, let's be honest, is a little stinky and unpleasant, is perfectly safe. the bacteria that causes disease is not the same bacteria that causes decomposition.finally, the industry will beautify the corpse. they'll tell you that the natural dead body of your mother or father is not good enough as it is. they'll put it in makeup. they'll put it in a suit. they'll inject dyes so the person looks a little more alive — just resting. embalming is a cheat code, providing the illusion that death and then decay are not the natural end for all organic life on this planet.now, if this system of beautification, sanitation, protection doesn't appeal to you, you are not alone. there is a whole wave of people — funeral directors, designers, environmentalists — trying to come up with a more eco-friendly way of death. for these people, death is not necessarily a pristine, makeup, powder-blue tuxedo kind of affair. there's no question that our current methods of death are not particularly sustainable, what with the waste of resources and our reliance on chemicals. even cremation, which is usually considered the environmentally friendly option, uses, per cremation, the natural gas equivalent of a 500-mile car trip.so where do we go from here? last summer, i was in the mountains of north carolina, hauling buckets of wood chips in the summer sun. i was at western carolina university at their "body farm," more accurately called a "human decomposition facility." bodies donated to science are brought here, and their decay is studied to benefit the future of forensics. on this particular day, there were 12 bodies laid out in various stages of decomposition. some were skeletonized, one was wearing purple pajamas, one still had blonde facial hair visible. the forensic aspect is really fascinating, but not actually why i was there. i was there because a colleague of mine named katrina spade is attempting to create a system, not of cremating the dead, but composting the dead.she calls the system "recomposition," and we've been doing it with cattle and other livestock for years. she imagines a facility where the family could come and lay their dead loved one in a nutrient-rich mixture that would, in four-to-six weeks, reduce the body — bones and all — to soil. in those four-to-six weeks, your molecules become other molecules; you literally transform.how would this fit in with the very recent desire a lot of people seem to have to be buried under a tree, or to become a tree when they die? in a traditional cremation, the ashes that are left over — inorganic bone fragments — form a thick, chalky layer that, unless distributed in the soil just right, can actually hurt or kill the tree. but if you're recomposed, if you actually become the soil, you can nourish the tree, and become the post-mortem contributor you've always wanted to be — that you deserve to be.so that's one option for the future of cremation. but what about the future of cemeteries? there are a lot of people who think we shouldn't even have cemeteries anymore because we're running out of land. but what if we reframed it, and the corpse wasn't the land's enemy, but its potential savior? i'm talking about conservation burial, where large swaths of land are purchased by a land trust. the beauty of this is that once you plant a few dead bodies in that land, it can't be touched, it can't be developed on — hence the term, "conservation burial." it's the equivalent of chaining yourself to a tree post-mortem — "hell no, i won't go! no, really — i can't. i'm decomposing under here." any money that the family gives to the cemetery would go back into protecting and managing the land. there are no headstones and no graves in the typical sense. the graves are scattered about the property under elegant mounds, marked only by a rock or a small metal disk, or sometimes only locatable by gps. there's no embalming, no heavy, metal caskets. my funeral home sells a few caskets made out of things like woven willow and bamboo, but honestly, most of our families just choose a simple shroud. there are none of the big vaults that most cemeteries require just because it makes it easier for them to landscape. families can come here; they can luxuriate in nature; they can even plant a tree or a shrub, though only native plants to the area are allowed. the dead then blend seamlessly in with the landscape.there's hope in conservation cemeteries. they offer dedicated green space in both urban and rural areas. they offer a chance to reintroduce native plants and animals to a region. they offer public trails, places for spiritual practice, places for classes and events — places where nature and mourning meet. most importantly, they offer us, once again, a chance to just decompose in a hole in the ground. the soil, let me tell you, has missed us.i think for a lot of people, they're starting to get the sense that our current funeral industry isn't really working for them. for many of us, being sanitized and beautified just doesn't reflect us. it doesn't reflect what we stood for during our lives. will changing the way we bury our dead solve climate change? no. but it will make bold moves in how we see ourselves as citizens of this planet. if we can die in a way that is more humble and self-aware, i believe that we stand a chance.thank you. <title = "Adventures of an asteroid hunter">
<tags = "['NASA', 'TED Books', 'TED Fellows', 'adventure', 'asteroid', 'astronomy', 'collaboration', 'discovery', 'exploration', 'global issues', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'solar system', 'space', 'technology', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Asteroid hunter">
i am holding something remarkably old. it is older than any human artifact, older than life on earth, older than the continents and the oceans between them. this was formed over four billion years ago in the earliest days of the solar system while the planets were still forming. this rusty lump of nickel and iron may not appear special, but when it is cut open ... you can see that it is different from earthly metals. this pattern reveals metallic crystals that can only form out in space where molten metal can cool extremely slowly, a few degrees every million years. this was once part of a much larger object, one of millions left over after the planets formed. we call these objects asteroids.asteroids are our oldest and most numerous cosmic neighbors. this graphic shows near-earth asteroids orbiting around the sun, shown in yellow, and swinging close to the earth's orbit, shown in blue. the sizes of the earth, sun and asteroids have been greatly exaggerated so you can see them clearly. teams of scientists across the globe are searching for these objects, discovering new ones every day, steadily mapping near-earth space. much of this work is funded by nasa. i think of the search for these asteroids as a giant public works project, but instead of building a highway, we're charting outer space, building an archive that will last for generations.these are the 1,556 near-earth asteroids discovered just last year. and these are all of the known near-earth asteroids, which at last count was 13,733. each one has been imaged, cataloged and had its path around the sun determined. although it varies from asteroid to asteroid, the paths of most asteroids can be predicted for dozens of years. and the paths of some asteroids can be predicted with incredible precision. for example, scientists at the jet propulsion laboratory predicted where the asteroid toutatis was going to be four years in advance to within 30 kilometers. in those four years, toutatis traveled 8.5 billion kilometers. that's a fractional precision of 0.000000004. now, the reason i have this beautiful asteroid fragment is because, like all neighbors, asteroids sometimes drop by unexpectedly. three years ago today, a small asteroid exploded over the city of chelyabinsk, russia. that object was about 19 meters across, or about as big as a convenience store. objects of this size hit the earth every 50 years or so.66 million years ago, a much larger object hit the earth, causing a massive extinction. 75 percent of plant and animal species were lost, including, sadly, the dinosaurs. that object was about 10 kilometers across, and 10 kilometers is roughly the cruising altitude of a 747 jet. so the next time you're in an airplane, snag a window seat, look out and imagine a rock so enormous that resting on the ground, it just grazes your wingtip. it's so wide that it takes your plane one full minute to fly past it. that's the size of the asteroid that hit the earth.it has only been within my lifetime that asteroids have been considered a credible threat to our planet. and since then, there's been a focused effort underway to discover and catalog these objects. i am lucky enough to be part of this effort. i'm part of a team of scientists that use nasa's neowise telescope. now, neowise was not designed to find asteroids. it was designed to orbit the earth and look far beyond our solar system to seek out the coldest stars and the most luminous galaxies. and it did that very well for its designed lifetime of seven months. but today, six years later, it's still going. we've repurposed it to discover and study asteroids. and although it's a wonderful little space robot, these days it's kind of like a used car. the cryogen that used to refrigerate its sensors is long gone, so we joke that its air-conditioning is broken. it's got 920 million miles on the odometer, but it still runs great and reliably takes a photograph of the sky every 11 seconds. it's taken 23 photos since i began speaking to you.one of the reasons neowise is so valuable is that it sees the sky in the thermal infrared. that means that instead of seeing the sunlight that asteroids reflect, neowise sees the heat that they emit. this is a vital capability since some asteroids are as dark as coal and can be difficult or impossible to spot with other telescopes. but all asteroids, light or dark, shine brightly for neowise.astronomers are using every technique at their disposal to discover and study asteroids. in 2010, a historic milestone was reached. the community, together, discovered over 90 percent of asteroids bigger than one kilometer across — objects capable of massive destruction to earth. but the job's not done yet. an object 140 meters or bigger could decimate a medium-sized country. so far, we've only found 25 percent of those.we must keep searching the sky for near-earth asteroids. we are the only species able to understand calculus or build telescopes. we know how to find these objects. this is our responsibility. if we found a hazardous asteroid with significant early warning, we could nudge it out of the way. unlike earthquakes, hurricanes or volcanic eruptions, an asteroid impact can be precisely predicted and prevented. what we need to do now is map near-earth space. we must keep searching the sky.thank you. <title = "What young women believe about their own sexual pleasure">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'children', 'communication', 'empathy', 'family', 'feminism', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'parenting', 'relationships', 'sex', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Journalist, author">
for several years now, we've been engaged in a national debate about sexual assault on campus. no question — it's crucial that young people understand the ground rules for consent, but that's where the conversation about sex is ending. and in that vacuum of information the media and the internet — that new digital street corner — are educating our kids for us. if we truly want young people to engage safely, ethically, and yes, enjoyably, it's time to have open honest discussion about what happens after "yes," and that includes breaking the biggest taboo of all and talking to young people about women's capacity for and entitlement to sexual pleasure. yeah. come on, ladies. i spent three years talking to girls ages 15 to 20 about their attitudes and experience of sex. and what i found was that while young women may feel entitled to engage in sexual behavior, they don't necessarily feel entitled to enjoy it. take this sophomore at the ivy league college who told me, "i come from a long line of smart, strong women. my grandmother was a firecracker, my mom is a professional, my sister and i are loud, and that's our form of feminine power." she then proceeded to describe her sex life to me: a series of one-off hookups, starting when she was 13, that were ... not especially responsible, not especially reciprocal and not especially enjoyable. she shrugged. "i guess we girls are just socialized to be these docile creatures who don't express our wants or needs." "wait a minute," i replied. "didn't you just tell me what a smart, strong woman you are?" she hemmed and hawed. "i guess," she finally said, "no one told me that that smart, strong image applies to sex."i should probably say right up top that despite the hype, teenagers are not engaging in intercourse more often or at a younger age than they were 25 years ago. they are, however, engaging in other behavior. and when we ignore that, when we label that as "not sex," that opens the door to risky behavior and disrespect. that's particularly true of oral sex, which teenagers consider to be less intimate than intercourse. girls would tell me, "it's no big deal," like they'd all read the same instruction manual — at least if boys were on the receiving end. young women have lots of reasons for participating. it made them feel desired; it was a way to boost social status. sometimes, it was a way to get out of an uncomfortable situation. as a freshman at a west coast college said to me, "a girl will give a guy a blow job at the end of the night because she doesn't want to have sex with him, and he expects to be satisfied. so, if i want him to leave and i don't want anything to happen ... " i heard so many stories of girls performing one-sided oral sex that i started asking, "what if every time you were alone with a guy, he told you to get him a glass of water from the kitchen, and he never got you a glass of water — or if he did, it was like ... 'you want me to uh ...?'" you know, totally begrudging. you wouldn't stand for it.but it wasn't always that boys didn't want to. it was that girls didn't want them to. girls expressed a sense of shame around their genitals. a sense that they were simultaneously icky and sacred. women's feelings about their genitals have been directly linked to their enjoyment of sex. yet, debby herbenick, a researcher at indiana university, believes that girls' genital self-image is under siege, with more pressure than ever to see them as unacceptable in their natural state. according to research, about three-quarters of college women remove their pubic hair — all of it — at least on occasion, and more than half do so regularly. girls would tell me that hair removal made them feel cleaner, that it was a personal choice. though, i kind of wondered if left alone on a desert island, if this was how they would choose to spend their time. and when i pushed further, a darker motivation emerged: avoiding humiliation. "guys act like they would be disgusted by it," one young woman told me. "no one wants to be talked about like that." the rising pubic hair removal reminded me of the 1920s, when women first started regularly shaving their armpits and their legs. that's when flapper dresses came into style, and women's limbs were suddenly visible, open to public scrutiny. there's a way that i think that this too is a sign. that a girl's most intimate part is open to public scrutiny, open to critique, to becoming more about how it looks to someone else than how it feels to her.the shaving trend has sparked another rise in labiaplasty. labiaplasty, which is the trimming of the inner and outer labia, is the fastest-growing cosmetic surgery among teenage girls. it rose 80 percent between 2014 and 2015, and whereas girls under 18 comprise two percent of all cosmetic surgeries, they are five percent of labiaplasty. the most sought-after look, incidentally, in which the outer labia appear fused like a clam shell, is called ... wait for it ... "the barbie."(groan)i trust i don't have to tell you that barbie is a) made of plastic and b) has no genitalia. the labiaplasty trend has become so worrisome that the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists has issued a statement on the procedure, which is rarely medically indicated, has not been proven safe and whose side effects include scarring, numbness, pain and diminished sexual sensation. now, admittedly, and blessedly, the number of girls involved is still quite small, but you could see them as canaries in a coal mine, telling us something important about the way girls see their bodies.sara mcclelland, a psychologist at the university of michigan, coined what is my favorite phrase ever in talking about all of this: "intimate justice." that's the idea that sex has political, as well as personal implications, just like, who does the dishes in your house, or who vacuums the rug. and it raises similar issues about inequality, about economic disparity, violence, physical and mental health. intimate justice asks us to consider who is entitled to engage in an experience. who is entitled to enjoy it? who is the primary beneficiary? and how does each partner define "good enough"? honestly, i think those questions are tricky and sometimes traumatic for adult women to confront, but when we're talking about girls, i just kept coming back to the idea that their early sexual experience shouldn't have to be something that they get over.in her work, mcclelland found that young women were more likely than young men to use their partner's pleasure as a measure of their satisfaction. so they'd say things like, "if he's sexually satisfied, then i'm sexually satisfied." young men were more likely to measure their satisfaction by their own orgasm. young women also defined bad sex differently. in the largest ever survey ever conducted on american sexual behavior, they reported pain in their sexual encounters 30 percent of the time. they also used words like "depressing," "humiliating," "degrading." the young men never used that language. so when young women report sexual satisfaction levels that are equal to or greater than young men's — and they do in research — that can be deceptive. if a girl goes into an encounter hoping that it won't hurt, wanting to feel close to her partner and expecting him to have an orgasm, she'll be satisfied if those criteria are met. and there's nothing wrong with wanting to feel close to your partner, or wanting him to be happy, and orgasm isn't the only measure of an experience ... but absence of pain — that's a very low bar for your own sexual fulfillment.listening to all of this and thinking about it, i began to realize that we performed a kind of psychological clitoridectomy on american girls. starting in infancy, parents of baby boys are more likely to name all their body parts, at least they'll say, "here's your pee-pee." parents of baby girls go right from navel to knees, and they leave this whole situation in here unnamed. there's no better way to make something unspeakable than not to name it. then kids go into their puberty education classes and they learn that boys have erections and ejaculations, and girls have ... periods and unwanted pregnancy. and they see that internal diagram of a woman's reproductive system — you know, the one that looks kind of like a steer head — and it always grays out between the legs. so we never say vulva, we certainly never say clitoris. no surprise, fewer than half of teenage girls age 14 to 17 have ever masturbated. and then they go into their partnered experience and we expect that somehow they'll think sex is about them, that they'll be able to articulate their needs, their desires, their limits. it's unrealistic.here's something, though. girls' investment in their partner's pleasure remains regardless of the gender of the partner. so in same-sex encounters, the orgasm gap disappears. and young women climax at the same rate as men. lesbian and bisexual girls would tell me that they felt liberated to get off the script — free to create an encounter that worked for them. gay girls also challenged the idea of first intercourse as the definition of virginity. not because intercourse isn't a big deal, but it's worth questioning why we consider this one act, which most girls associate with discomfort or pain, to be the line in the sand of sexual adulthood — so much more meaningful, so much more transformative than anything else. and it's worth considering how this is serving girls; whether it's keeping them safer from disease, coercion, betrayal, assault. whether it's encouraging mutuality and caring; what it means about the way they see other sex acts; whether it's giving them more control over and joy in their experience, and what it means about gay teens, who can have multiple sex partners without heterosexual intercourse. so i asked a gay girl that i met, "how'd you know you weren't a virgin anymore?" she said she had to google it. and google wasn't sure. she finally decided that she wasn't a virgin anymore after she'd had her first orgasm with a partner. and i thought — whoa. what if just for a second we imagined that was the definition? again, not because intercourse isn't a big deal — of course it is — but it isn't the only big deal, and rather than thinking about sex as a race to a goal, this helps us reconceptualize it as a pool of experiences that include warmth, affection, arousal, desire, touch, intimacy. and it's worth asking young people: who's really the more sexually experienced person? the one who makes out with a partner for three hours and experiments with sensual tension and communication, or the one who gets wasted at a party and hooks up with a random in order to dump their "virginity" before they get to college?the only way that shift in thinking can happen though is if we talk to young people more about sex — if we normalize those discussions, integrating them into everyday life, talking about those intimate acts in a different way — the way we mostly have changed in the way that we talk about women in the public realm.consider a survey of 300 randomly chosen girls from a dutch and an american university, two similar universities, talking about their early experience of sex. the dutch girls embodied everything we say we want from our girls. they had fewer negative consequences, like disease, pregnancy, regret — more positive outcomes like being able to communicate with their partner, who they said they knew very well; preparing for the experience responsibly; enjoying themselves. what was their secret? the dutch girls said that their doctors, teachers and parents talked to them candidly, from an early age, about sex, pleasure and the importance of mutual trust. what's more, while american parents weren't necessarily less comfortable talking about sex, we tend to frame those conversations entirely in terms or risk and danger, whereas dutch parents talk about balancing responsibility and joy. i have to tell you, as a parent myself, that hit me hard, because i know, had i not delved into that research, i would have talked to my own child about contraception, about disease protection, about consent because i'm a modern parent, and i would have thought ... job well done.now i know that's not enough. i also know what i hope for for our girls. i want them to see sexuality as a source of self-knowledge, creativity and communication, despite its potential risks. i want them to be able to revel in their bodies' sensuality without being reduced to it. i want them to be able to ask for what they want in bed, and to get it. i want them to be safe from unwanted pregnancy, disease, cruelty, dehumanization, violence. if they are assaulted, i want them to have recourse from their schools, their employers, the courts. it's a lot to ask, but it's not too much.as parents, teachers, advocates and activists, we have raised a generation of girls to have a voice, to expect egalitarian treatment in the home, in the classroom, in the workplace. now it's time to demand that intimate justice in their personal lives as well.thank you. <title = "Should we simplify spelling?">
<tags = "['TED en Español', 'TEDx', 'children', 'communication', 'education', 'grammar', 'innovation', 'language', 'literature', 'teaching', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Literary scholar">
we lost a lot of time at school learning spelling. kids are still losing a lot of time at school with spelling. that's why i want to share a question with you: do we need new spelling rules? i believe that yes, we do. or even better, i think we need to simplify the ones we already have.neither the question nor the answer are new in the spanish language. they have been bouncing around from century to century since 1492, when in the first grammar guide of the spanish language, antonio de nebrija, set a clear and simple principle for our spelling: "... thus, we have to write words as we pronounce them, and pronounce words as we write them." each sound was to correspond to one letter, each letter was to represent a single sound, and those which did not represent any sound should be removed. this approach, the phonetic approach, which says we have to write words as we pronounce them, both is and isn't at the root of spelling as we practice it today. it is, because the spanish language, in contrast to english, french or others, always strongly resisted writing words too differently to how we pronounce them.but the phonetic approach is also absent today, because when, in the 18th century, we decided how we would standardize our writing, there was another approach which guided a good part of the decisions. it was the etymological approach, the one that says we have to write words according to how they were written in their original language, in latin, in greek. that's how we ended up with silent h's, which we write but don't pronounce. that's how we have b's and v's that, contrary to what many people believe, were never differentiated in spanish pronunciation. that's how we wound up with g's, that are sometimes aspirated, as in "gente," and other times unaspirated, as in "gato." that's how we ended up with c's, s's and z's, three letters that in some places correspond to one sound, and in others, to two, but nowhere to three.i'm not here to tell you anything you don't know from your own experience. we all went to school, we all invested big amounts of learning time, big amounts of pliant, childlike brain time in dictation, in the memorization of spelling rules filled, nevertheless, with exceptions. we were told in many ways, implicitly and explicitly, that in spelling, something fundamental to our upbringing was at stake. yet, i have the feeling that teachers didn't ask themselves why it was so important. in fact, they didn't ask themselves a previous question: what is the purpose of spelling? what do we need spelling for?and the truth is, when someone asks themselves this question, the answer is much simpler and less momentous than we'd usually believe. we use spelling to unify the way we write, so we can all write the same way, making it easier for us to understand when we read to each other. but unlike in other aspects of language such as punctuation, in spelling, there's no individual expression involved. in punctuation, there is. with punctuation, i can choose to change the meaning of a phrase. with punctuation, i can impose a particular rhythm to what i am writing, but not with spelling. when it comes to spelling, it's either wrong or right, according to whether it conforms or not to the current rules. but then, wouldn't it be more sensible to simplify the current rules so it would be easier to teach, learn and use spelling correctly? wouldn't it be more sensible to simplify the current rules so that all the time we devote today to teaching spelling, we could devote to other language issues whose complexities do, in fact, deserve the time and effort?what i propose is not to abolish spelling, and have everyone write however they want. language is a tool of common usage, and so i believe it's fundamental that we use it following common criteria. but i also find it fundamental that those common criteria be as simple as possible, especially because if we simplify our spelling, we're not leveling it down; when spelling is simplified, the quality of the language doesn't suffer at all.i work every day with spanish golden age literature, i read garcilaso, cervantes, góngora, quevedo, who sometimes write "hombre" without h, sometimes write "escribir" with v, and it's absolutely clear to me that the difference between those texts and ours is one of convention, or rather, a lack of convention during their time. but it's not a difference of quality. but let me go back to the masters, because they're key characters in this story. earlier, i mentioned this slightly thoughtless insistence with which teachers pester and pester us over spelling. but the truth is, things being as they are, this makes perfect sense. in our society, spelling serves as an index of privilege, separating the cultured from the brute, the educated from the ignorant, independent of the content that's being written. one can get or not get a job because of an h that one put or did not. one can become an object of public ridicule because of a misplaced b. therefore, in this context, of course, it makes sense to dedicate all this time to spelling.but we shouldn't forget that throughout the history of our language, it has always been teachers or people involved in the early learning of language who promoted spelling reforms, who realized that in our spelling there was often an obstacle to the transmission of knowledge. in our case, for example, sarmiento, together with andrés bello, spearheaded the biggest spelling reform to take place in the spanish language: the mid-19th century chilean reform. then, why not take over the task of those teachers and start making progress in our spelling? here, in this intimate group of 10,000, i'd like to bring to the table some changes that i find reasonable to start discussing.let's remove the silent h. in places where we write an h but pronounce nothing, let's not write anything. it's hard for me to imagine what sentimental attachment can justify to someone all the hassle caused by the silent h. b and v, as we said before, were never differentiated in the spanish language — let's choose one; it could be either. we can discuss it, talk it over. everyone will have their preferences and can make their arguments. let's keep one, remove the other. g and j, let's separate their roles. g should keep the unaspirated sound, like in "gato," "mago," and "águila," and j should keep the aspirated sound, as in "jarabe," "jirafa," "gente," "argentino." the case of c, s and z is interesting, because it shows that the phonetic approach must be a guide, but it can't be an absolute principle. in some cases, the differences in pronunciation must be addressed. as i said before, c, s and z, in some places, correspond to one sound, in others to two. if we go from three letters to two, we're all better off.to some, these changes may seem a bit drastic. they're really not. the royal spanish academy, all of language academies, also believes that spelling should be progressively modified; that language is linked to history, tradition and custom, but that at the same time, it is a practical everyday tool and that sometimes this attachment to history, tradition and custom becomes an obstacle for its current usage. indeed, this explains the fact that our language, much more than the others we are geographically close to, has been historically modifying itself based on us, for example, we went from "ortographia" to "ortografía," from "theatro" to "teatro," from "quantidad" to "cantidad," from "symbolo" to "símbolo." and some silent h's are slowly being stealthily removed: in the dictionary of the royal academy, "arpa" and "armonía" can be written with or without an h. and everybody is ok.i also believe that this is a particularly appropriate moment to have this discussion. it's always said that language changes spontaneously, from the bottom up, that its users are the ones who incorporate new words and who introduce grammatical changes, and that the authority — in some places an academy, in others a dictionary, in others a ministry — accepts and incorporates them long after the fact. this is true only for some levels of language. it is true on the lexical level, the level of words. it is less true on the grammatical level, and i would almost say it is not true for the spelling level, that has historically changed from the top down. institutions have always been the ones to establish the rules and propose changes.why do i say this is a particularly appropriate moment? until today, writing always had a much more restricted and private use than speech. but in our time, the age of social networks, this is going through a revolutionary change. never before have people written so much; never before have people written for so many others to see. and in these social networks, for the first time, we're seeing innovative uses of spelling on a large scale, where even more-than-educated people with impeccable spelling, when using social networks, behave a lot like the majority of users of social networks behave. that is to say, they slack on spell-checking and prioritize speed and efficacy in communication. for now, on social networks, we see chaotic, individual usages. but i think we have to pay attention to them, because they're probably telling us that an era that designates a new place for writing seeks new criteria for that writing. i think we'd be wrong to reject them, to discard them, because we identify them as symptoms of the cultural decay of our times. no, i believe we have to observe them, organize them and channel them within guidelines that better correspond to the needs of our times.i can anticipate some objections. there will be those who'll say that if we simplify spelling we'll lose etymology. strictly speaking, if we wanted to preserve etymology, it would go beyond just spelling. we'd also have to learn latin, greek, arabic. with simplified spelling, we would normalize etymology in the same place we do now: in etymological dictionaries. a second objection will come from those who say: "if we simplify spelling, we'll stop distinguishing between words that differ in just one letter." that is true, but it's not a problem. our language has homonyms, words with more than one meaning, yet we don't confuse the "banco" where we sit with the "banco" where we deposit money, or the "traje" that we wear with the things we "trajimos." in the vast majority of situations, context dispels any confusion.but there's a third objection. to me, it's the most understandable, even the most moving. it's the people who'll say: "i don't want to change. i was brought up like this, i got used to doing it this way, when i read a written word in simplified spelling, my eyes hurt." this objection is, in part, in all of us. what do i think we should do? the same thing that's always done in these cases: changes are made looking forward; children are taught the new rules, those of us who don't want to adapt can write the way we're used to writing, and hopefully, time will cement the new rules in place. the success of every spelling reform that affects deeply rooted habits lies in caution, agreement, gradualism and tolerance. at the same time, can't allow the attachment to old customs impede us from moving forward. the best tribute we can pay to the past is to improve upon what it's given us.so i believe that we must reach an agreement, that academies must reach an agreement, and purge from our spelling rules all the habits we practice just for the sake of tradition, even if they are useless now. i'm convinced that if we do that in the humble but extremely important realm of language, we'll be leaving a better future to the next generations. <title = "Inside America's dead shopping malls">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'art', 'capitalism', 'community', 'exploration', 'film', 'movies', 'public spaces', 'social change', 'urban']">
<occupation = "Filmmaker">
in the last couple of years, i have produced what i call "the dead mall series," 32 short films and counting about dead malls. now, for those of you who are not familiar with what a dead mall is, it's basically a shopping mall that has fallen into hard times. so it either has few shops and fewer shoppers, or it's abandoned and crumbling into ruin. no sale at penny's. i started producing this series in early 2015 after going through kind of a dark period in my life where i just didn't want to create films anymore. i put my camera away and i just stopped. so in 2015, i decided to make a short film about the owings mills mall. owings mills mall opened in 1986. i should know because i was there on opening day. i was there with my family, along with every other family in baltimore, and you had to drive around for 45 minutes just to find a parking spot. so if you can imagine, that's not happening at the malls today.my first mall job that i had as a teenager was at a sporting goods store called herman's world of sports. maybe you remember.(singing) herman's world of sports.you guys remember that? yeah, so i worked in a lady's shoe store. i worked in a leather goods store, and i also worked in a video store, and not being one who was very fond of the retail arts — i got fired from every single job. in between these low-paying retail jobs, i did what any normal teenager did in the 1990s. i shoplifted. i'm just kidding. i hung out with my friends at the mall. everyone's like, "oh my god, what kind of talk is this?" hanging out at the mall could be fun, but it could be really lame, too, like sharing a cigarette with a 40-year-old unemployed mall rat who has put on black lipstick for the night while you're on your break from your crappy minimum wage job.as i stand here today, owings mills has been gutted and it's ready for the wrecking ball. the last time i was there, it was in the evening, and it was about three days before they closed the mall for good. and you kind of felt — they never announced the mall was closing, but you had this sort of feeling, this ominous feeling, that something big was going to happen, like it was the end of the road. it was a very creepy walk through the mall. let me show you.(music)so when i started producing "the dead mall series," i put the videos up onto youtube, and while i thought they were interesting, frankly i didn't think others would share the enthusiasm for such a drab and depressing topic. but apparently i was wrong, because a lot of people started to comment. and at first the comments were like — basically like, "oh my god, that's the mall from my childhood. what happened?" and then i would get comments from people who were like, "there's a dead mall in my town. you should come and film it." so i started to travel around the mid-atlantic region filming these dead malls. some were open. some were abandoned. it was kind of always hard to get into the ones that were abandoned, but i somehow always found a way in. the malls that are still open, they always do this weird thing — like the dead malls. they'll have three stores left, but they try to spruce it up to make it appear like things are on the up-and-up. for example, you'll have an empty store and they bring the gate down. so at owings mills, for example, they put this tarp over the gate. right? and it's got a stock photo of a woman who is so happy and she's holding a blouse, and she's like — and then there's a guy standing next to her, with, like, an espresso cup, and he's like — and it says, "what brings you today?" i wanted to be scared and depressed. thank you.so the comments just kept pouring in on the videos, from all over the country, and then all over the world. and i started to think, this could really be something, but i had to get creative, because i'm like, how long are people going to sit and watch me waddling through an empty mall? so the original episodes i filmed with an iphone. so i'd walk through the mall with an iphone, and, you know. like that. and security — because malls, they don't like photography — so the security would come up and be like, "put that away," and i'm like, "ok." so i had to get creative and sneaky, so i started using a hidden camera and different techniques to get the footage that i needed, and basically what i wanted to do was make the video like it was a first-person experience, like you are sitting — put your headphones on watching the screen — it's like, you're there in the video, like a video game, basically.i also started to use music, collaborating with artists who create music called vaporwave. and vaporwave is a music genre that emerged in the early 2010s among internet communities. here's an example.(music)that's by an artist named disconscious from an album he did called "hologram plaza." so if you look that up, you can hear more of those tunes. vaporwave is more than an art form. it's like a movement. it's nihilistic, it's angsty, but it's somehow comforting. the whole aesthetic is a way of dealing with things you can't do anything about, like no jobs, or sitting in your parents' basement eating ramen noodles. vaporwave came out of this generation's desire to express their hopelessness, the same way that the pre-internet generation did sitting around in the food court.one of my favorite malls i've been to is in corpus christi, and it's called the sunrise mall. when i was a kid, my favorite thing to do was watch movies, and i used to watch movies over and over and over again. and one of my favorite films was "the legend of billie jean." now, for those of you who have seen "the legend of billie jean," you'll know that it's a great film. i love it. and helen slater and christian slater — and if you didn't know, they are not related. many people thought that they were brother and sister. they're not. but anyway, sunrise mall was used in the film as a filming location. the mall is exactly the same as it was in 1984. we're talking 32 years later. let me show you.(video) dan bell: and here's billie jean running across the fountain, being chased by hubie pyatt's friends. and she jumps over here. and you can see the shot right here is what it looks like today. it's pretty incredible. i mean, honestly, it's exactly the same. and there they are falling in the fountain, and she runs up the stairs. this is a nice shot of the whole thing here.dan bell: i love that so much. i always think in my head, if i owned a dead mall — why don't they embrace their vintage look? put in a bar, like, put vegan food in the food court and invite millennials and hipsters to come and drink and eat, and i guarantee you within three weeks h&m and levi's will be banging on the door trying to get space. i don't know why they don't do this, but apparently, it's only in my mind, it goes all day. anyway, in closing — when they first asked me to do this talk, i said, "do you have the right person?" these talks are supposed to be kind of inspiring and — i remembered something, though. i put my camera down three or four years ago, and it took going to these malls for me to be inspired again. and to see my audience and people from all over the world writing me and saying, "god, i love your videos," is incredible. i don't know how to even explain it, as an artist, how fulfilling that is. if you would have told me a year ago that i would be standing on this stage talking to all of you wonderful people, i would have never believed it. i am humbled and so appreciative.thank you very much. <title = "Lifelike simulations that make real-life surgery safer">
<tags = "['Surgery', 'TEDx', 'brain', 'children', 'education', 'future', 'health care', 'innovation', 'medicine', 'teaching', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Pediatric ICU doctor">
what if i told you there was a new technology that, when placed in the hands of doctors and nurses, improved outcomes for children and adults, patients of all ages; reduced pain and suffering, reduced time in the operating rooms, reduced anesthetic times, had the ultimate dose-response curve that the more you did it, the better it benefitted patients? here's a kicker: it has no side effects, and it's available no matter where care is delivered. i can tell you as an icu doctor at boston children's hospital, this would be a game changer for me. that technology is lifelike rehearsal. this lifelike rehearsal is being delivered through medical simulation.i thought i would start with a case, just to really describe the challenge ahead, and why this technology is not just going to improve health care but why it's critical to health care. this is a child that's born, young girl. "day of life zero," we call it, the first day of life, just born into the world. and just as she's being born, we notice very quickly that she is deteriorating. her heart rate is going up, her blood pressure is going down, she's breathing very, very fast. and the reason for this is displayed in this chest x-ray.that's called a babygram, a full x-ray of a child's body, a little infant's body. as you look on the top side of this, that's where the heart and lungs are supposed to be. as you look at the bottom end, that's where the abdomen is, and that's where the intestines are supposed to be. and you can see how there's sort of that translucent area that made its way up into the right side of this child's chest. and those are the intestines — in the wrong place. as a result, they're pushing on the lungs and making it very difficult for this poor baby to breathe.the fix for this problem is to take this child immediately to the operating room, bring those intestines back into the abdomen, let the lungs expand and allow this child to breathe again. but before she can go to the operating room, she must get whisked away to the icu, where i work. i work with surgical teams. we gather around her, and we place this child on heart-lung bypass. we put her to sleep, we make a tiny little incision in the neck, we place catheters into the major vessels of the neck — and i can tell you that these vessels are about the size of a pen, the tip of a pen — and then we have blood drawn from the body, we bring it through a machine, it gets oxygenated, and it goes back into the body. we save her life, and get her safely to the operating room.here's the problem: these disorders — what is known is congenital diaphragmatic hernia — this hole in the diaphragm that has allowed these intestines to sneak up — these disorders are rare. even in the best hands in the world, there is still a challenge to get the volume — the natural volume of these patients — in order to get our expertise curve at 100 percent. they just don't present that often. so how do you make the rare common?here's the other problem: in the health care system that i trained for over 20 years, what currently exists, the model of training is called the apprenticeship model. it's been around for centuries. it's based on this idea that you see a surgery maybe once, maybe several times, you then go do that surgery, and then ultimately you teach that surgery to the next generation. and implicit in this model — i don't need to tell you this — is that we practice on the very patients that we are delivering care to. that's a problem. i think there's a better approach. medicine may very well be the last high-stakes industry that does not practice prior to game time. i want to describe to you a better approach through medical simulation.well, the first thing we did is we went to other high-stakes industries that had been using this type of methodology for decades. this is nuclear power. nuclear power runs scenarios on a regular basis in order to practice what they hope will never occur. and as we're all very familiar, the airline industry — we all get on planes now, comforted by the idea that pilots and crews have trained on simulators much like these, training on scenarios that we hope will never occur, but we know if they did, they would be prepared for the worst. in fact, the airline industry has gone as far as to create fuselages of simulation environments, because of the importance of the team coming together. this is an evacuation drill simulator. so again, if that ever were to happen, these rare, rare events, they're ready to act on the drop of a dime.i guess the most compelling for me in some ways is the sports industry — arguably high stakes. you think about a baseball team: baseball players practice. i think it's a beautiful example of progressive training. the first thing they do is go out to spring training. they go to a spring training camp, perhaps a simulator in baseball. they're not on the real field, but they're on a simulated field, and they're playing in the pregame season. then they make their way to the field during the season games, and what's the first thing they do before they start the game? they go into the batting cage and do batting practice for hours, having different types of pitches being thrown at them, hitting ball after ball as they limber their muscles, getting ready for the game itself. and here's the most phenomenal part of this, and for all of you who watch any sport event, you will see this phenomenon happen. the batter gets into the batter's box, the pitcher gets ready to pitch. right before the pitch is thrown, what does that batter do? the batter steps out of the box and takes a practice swing. he wouldn't do it any other way.i want to talk to you about how we're building practice swings like this in medicine. we are building batting cages for the patients that we care about at boston children's. i want to use this case that we recently built. it's the case of a four-year-old who had a progressively enlarging head, and as a result, had loss of developmental milestones, neurologic milestones, and the reason for this problem is here — it's called hydrocephalus.so, a quick study in neurosurgery. there's the brain, and you can see the cranium surrounding the brain. what surrounds the brain, between the brain and cranium, is something called cerebrospinal fluid or fluid, which acts as a shock absorber. in your heads right now, there is cerebrospinal fluid just bathing your brains and making its way around. it's produced in one area and flows through, and then is re-exchanged. and this beautiful flow pattern occurs for all of us. but unfortunately in some children, there's a blockage of this flow pattern, much like a traffic jam. as a result, the fluid accumulates, and the brain is pushed aside. it has difficulty growing. as a result, the child loses neurologic milestones. this is a devastating disease in children.the cure for this is surgery. the traditional surgery is to take a bit of the cranium off, a bit of the skull, drain this fluid out, stick a drain in place, and then eventually bring this drain internal to the body. big operation. but some great news is that advances in neurosurgical care have allowed us to develop minimally invasive approaches to this surgery. through a small pinhole, a camera can be inserted, led into the deep brain structure, and cause a little hole in a membrane that allows all that fluid to drain, much like it would in a sink. all of a sudden, the brain is no longer under pressure, can re-expand and we cure the child through a single-hole incision.but here's the problem: hydrocephalus is relatively rare. and there are no good training methods to get really good at getting this scope to the right place. but surgeons have been quite creative about this, even our own. and they've come up with training models. here's the current training model. i kid you not. this is a red pepper, not made in hollywood; it's real red pepper. and what surgeons do is they stick a scope into the pepper, and they do what is called a "seedectomy." they use this scope to remove seeds using a little tweezer. and that is a way to get under their belts the rudimentary components of doing this surgery. then they head right into the apprenticeship model, seeing many of them as they present themselves, then doing it, and then teaching it — waiting for these patients to arrive. we can do a lot better.we are manufacturing reproductions of children in order for surgeons and surgical teams to rehearse in the most relevant possible ways. let me show you this. here's my team in what's called the sim engineering division of the simulator program. this is an amazing team of individuals. they are mechanical engineers; you're seeing here, illustrators. they take primary data from ct scans and mris, translate it into digital information, animate it, put it together into the components of the child itself, surface-scan elements of the child that have been casted as needed, depending on the surgery itself, and then take this digital data and be able to output it on state-of-the-art, three-dimensional printing devices that allow us to print the components exactly to the micron detail of what the child's anatomy will look like. you can see here, the skull of this child being printed in the hours before we performed this surgery.but we could not do this work without our dear friends on the west coast in hollywood, california. these are individuals that are incredibly talented at being able to recreate reality. it was not a long leap for us. the more we got into this field, the more it became clear to us that we are doing cinematography. we're doing filmmaking, it's just that the actors are not actors. they're real doctors and nurses. so these are some photos of our dear friends at fractured fx in hollywood california, an emmy-award-winning special effects firm. this is justin raleigh and his group — this is not one of our patients — but kind of the exquisite work that these individuals do. we have now collaborated and fused our experience, bringing their group to boston children's hospital, sending our group out to hollywood, california and exchanging around this to be able to develop these type of simulators.what i'm about to show you is a reproduction of this child. you'll notice here that every hair on the child's head is reproduced. and in fact, this is also that reproduced child — and i apologize for any queasy stomachs, but that is a reproduction and simulation of the child they're about to operate on. here's that membrane we had talked about, the inside of this child's brain. what you're going to be seeing here is, on one side, the actual patient, and on the other side, the simulator. as i mentioned, a scope, a little camera, needs to make its way down, and you're seeing that here. it needs to make a small hole in this membrane and allow this fluid to seep out. i won't do a quiz show to see who thinks which side is which, but on the right is the simulator.so surgeons can now produce training opportunities, do these surgeries as many times as they want, to their heart's content, until they feel comfortable. and then, and only then, bring the child into the operating room. but we don't stop here. we know that a key step to this is not just the skill itself, but combining that skill with a team who's going to deliver that care.now we turn to formula one. and here is an example of a technician putting on a tire and doing that time and time again on this car. but that is very quickly going to be incorporated within team-training experiences, now as a full team orchestrating the exchange of tires and getting this car back on the speedway. we've done that step in health care, so now what you're about to see is a simulated operation. we've taken the simulator i just described to you, we've brought it into the operating room at boston children's hospital, and these individuals — these native teams, operative teams — are doing the surgery before the surgery. operate twice; cut once. let me show that to you.(video) surgical team member 1: you want the head down or head up?stm 2: can you lower it down to 10?stm 3: and then lower the whole table down a little bit?stm 4: table coming down.stm 3: all right, this is behaving like a vessel. could we have the scissors back, please?stm 5: i'm taking my gloves, 8 to 8 1/2, all right? i'll be right in.stm 6: great! thank you.peter weinstock: it's really amazing. the second step to this, which is critical, is we take these teams out immediately and debrief them. we use the same technologies that are used in lean and six sigma in the military, and we bring them out and talk about what went right, but more importantly, we talk about what didn't go well, and how we're going to fix it. then we bring them right back in and do it again. deliberative batting practice in the moments when it matters most.let's go back to this case now. same child, but now let me describe how we care for this child at boston children's hospital. this child was born at three o'clock in the morning. at two o'clock in the morning, we assembled the team, and took the reproduced anatomy that we would gain out of scans and images, and brought that team to the virtual bedside, to a simulated bedside — the same team that's going to operate on this child in the hours ahead — and we have them do the procedure. let me show you a moment of this. this is not a real incision. and the baby has not yet been born. imagine this.so now the conversations that i have with families in the intensive care unit at boston children's hospital are totally different. imagine this conversation: "not only do we take care of this disorder frequently in our icu, and not only have we done surgeries like the surgery we're going to do on your child, but we have done your child's surgery. and we did it two hours ago. and we did it 10 times. and now we're prepared to take them back to the operating room."so a new technology in health care: lifelike rehearsal. practicing prior to game time.thank you. <title = "Asking for help is a strength, not a weakness">
<tags = "['children', 'communication', 'community', 'compassion', 'empathy', 'humanity', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Social innovator">
we all have milestones in life that we remember so vividly. the first one for me was when i was entering kindergarten. my big brother was in school, and by golly, it was my time. and i went trottin' down that hallway. i was so excited, i almost wet myself. and i go to the door, and there was the teacher with a warm welcome, and she took me into the classroom, showed me my little cubbyhole — we all remember those little cubbyholes, don't we — and we put our stuff in there. and then she said, "go over to the circle and play with the kids until class starts." so i went over there and plopped down like i owned the place, and i'm playing, and all of a sudden, the boy next to me, he was wearing a white shirt with blue shorts. i remember it like it was yesterday. suddenly he stopped playing and he said, "why are you so short?" and i just kept playing. i didn't think he was talking to me. and in a louder voice, he said, "hey, why are you so short?" so i looked up and i said, "what are you talking about? let's just play. we're happy. i've been waiting for this."and so we played, and about a minute later, the girl next to him, in a white shirt and a pink skirt, stood up, put her hands on her hips, and said, "yeah, why do you look so different?" and i went, "what are you talking about? i don't look different. i'm not short. again, let's just play."about this time, i looked all around the circle i was in, and all the kids had stopped playing and they were all looking at me. and i'm thinking — in today's language, it would be "omg" or "wtf." what just happened?so all the confidence that i went in with that morning was withering away as the morning went on and the questions kept coming. and at the end of the morning, before i went home, the teacher had us in a circle, and i actually found myself outside of the circle. i couldn't look at anybody. i could not understand what just happened.and over the next few years, i hated to go out in public. i felt every stare, every giggle, every pointed finger, not the finger, but every pointed finger, and i hated it. i would hide behind my parents' legs like nobody could see me. and as a child, you can't understand another child's curiosity, nor an adult's ignorance. it became very apparent to me that the real world was not built for someone of my size, both literally or figuratively.and so i have no anonymity, as you can probably tell, and while you can see my size, we all go through many challenges through our lifetime. and some you can see, like mine. most you can't. you can't tell if someone's dealing with a mental illness, or they're struggling with their gender identity, they're caring for an aging parent, they're having financial difficulty. you can't see that kind of stuff. so while you can see one of my challenges is my size, seeing does not mean you understand what it's truly to be me on a daily basis, or what i go through. and so i'm here to debunk a myth. i do not believe you can walk in someone else's shoes, and because of that, we must adopt a new way of giving of ourselves. simply stated, i will never know what it's like to be you and you will never know what it's like to be me. i cannot face your fears or chase your dreams, and you can't do that for me, but we can be supportive of each other. instead of trying to walk in each other's shoes, we must adopt a new way of giving of ourselves.i learned at an early age that i did have to do some things different than most people, but i also learned there were things i was on equal footing with, and one of those was the classroom. heh, heh, heh. i was equal. as a matter of fact, i excelled in the classroom. this was vitally important, i discovered as i grew older and realized i wasn't going to be able to do a physical job. i needed an education. so i went on and got a university degree, but i felt to be one step ahead of everyone for employment, i needed to have an advanced university degree, so i went ahead and got that.now i'm ready for my interview. remember your first interview? what am i going to wear? what questions? and don't forget that firm handshake. i was right there with you. so 24 hours before my interview, a friend of mine who i've known all my life called and said, "michele, the building you're going in has steps." and she knew i couldn't climb steps. so suddenly, my focus changed. in my shoes, i was worried about how am i going to get there? so i went early and found a loading dock and got in and had a great interview. they had no idea what i went through for the day and that's ok.you're probably thinking my greatest challenge that day was the interview, or getting in the building. in reality, my biggest challenge that day was getting through the loading dock without getting run over. i am very vulnerable in certain situations: airports, hallways, parking lots, loading docks. and so i have to be very careful. i have to anticipate and be flexible and move as quickly as i can sometimes.so i got the job, and in my current role i travel quite a bit. and travel is a challenge for all of us these days. and so you probably get to the airport, run through security, get to the gate. did i get my aisle seat or my window seat? did i get my upgrade? me, first of all, i don't run through anything. and i especially don't run through the tsa because i get to experience the personal patdown. i won't comment on that. and then i make my way to the gate, and with my gift of gab that my parents said i was born with, i talk to the gate agent, and then i say, "by the way, my scooter weighs this much, i have a dry cell battery, and i can drive it down to the door of the plane." also, the day before, i had called the city where i'm traveling to to find out where i could rent a scooter in case mine gets broken on the way. so in my shoes, it's a little bit different.when i get onto the plane, i use my gift of gab to ask the lady to put my bag up, and they graciously do. i try not to eat or drink on a plane because i don't want to have to get up and walk on the plane, but nature has its own schedule, and not long ago, it knocked and i answered. so i walked up to the front of the plane and gabbed with the flight attendant, and said, "can you watch the door? i can't reach the lock." so i'm in there doing my business, and the door flies open. and there's a gentleman there with a look of horror on his face. i'm sure i had the same look. as i came out, i noticed that he was sitting right across from me, and he's in total, complete embarrassment. so i walk up to him and i quietly go, "are you going to remember this as much as i am?" and he goes, "i think so." now, while he's probably not talking about it publicly, i am. but we talked for the rest of the flight, and we got to know each other, our families, sports, work, and when we landed, he said, "michele, i noticed someone put your bag up. can i get that for you?" and i said, "of course, thank you." and we wished each other well, and the most important thing that day was that he was not going to leave with that embarrassment, that experience of embarrassment. he won't forget it, and neither will i, but i think he will remember more our chat and our different perspectives.when you travel internationally, it can be even more challenging in certain ways. a few years ago, i was in zanzibar, and i come wheeling in, and think about that. short, white, blond woman in a chair. that doesn't probably happen every day. so i go up, and with my gift of gab, i start to talk to the agent. so friendly, and i ask about their culture and so forth, and i notice there wasn't a jet bridge. so i had to kind of say, "not only do you have to lift my chair, i could use some help getting up the steps." so we got to spend about an hour together while we waited for the flight, and it was the most magnificent hour. our perspective changed for both of us that day. and once i got on the flight, he patted me on the back and wished me well, and i thanked him so much. and again, i think he's going to remember that experience more than when i first came in, and there was a bit of hesitation.and as you notice, i get a lot of help. i would not be where i am today if it was not for my family, my friends, my colleagues and the many strangers that help me every single day of my life. and it's important that we all have a support system. asking for help is a strength, not a weakness. we all need help throughout our lifetime, but it is just as important that we are part of other people's support systems. we must adopt that way of giving back. we all obviously have a role to play in our own successes, but think about the role we have to play in other people's successes, just like people do for me every single day.it's vitally important that we help each other, because society is increasingly placing people in silos based on biases and ideologies. and we must look past the surface and be confronted with the truth that none of us are what you can see. there's more to us than that, and we're all dealing with things that you cannot see. so living a life free of judgment allows all of us to share those experiences together and have a totally different perspective, just like the couple of people i mentioned earlier in my stories.so remember, the only shoes you truly can walk in are your own. i cannot walk in yours. i know you can't walk in my size 1s — but you can try. but we can do something better than that. with compassion, courage and understanding, we can walk side by side and support one another, and think about how society can change if we all do that instead of judging on only what you can see.thank you. thank you.<title = "Why civilians suffer more once a war is over">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'community', 'disaster relief', 'ebola', 'global issues', 'health', 'health care', 'medicine', 'public health', 'security', 'society', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Physician, global health policy analyst">
so have you ever wondered what it would be like to live in a place with no rules? that sounds pretty cool. you wake up one morning, however, and you discover that the reason there are no rules is because there's no government, and there are no laws. in fact, all social institutions have disappeared. so there's no schools, there's no hospitals, there's no police, there's no banks, there's no athletic clubs, there's no utilities.well, i know a little bit about what this is like, because when i was a medical student in 1999, i worked in a refugee camp in the balkans during the kosovo war. when the war was over, i got permission — unbelievably — from my medical school to take some time off and follow some of the families that i had befriended in the camp back to their village in kosovo, and understand how they navigated life in this postwar setting.postwar kosovo was a very interesting place because nato troops were there, mostly to make sure the war didn't break out again. but other than that, it was actually a lawless place, and almost every social institution, both public and private, had been destroyed. so i can tell you that when you go into one of these situations and settings, it is absolutely thrilling ... for about 30 minutes, because that's about how long it takes before you run into a situation where you realize how incredibly vulnerable you are.for me, that moment came when i had to cross the first checkpoint, and i realized as i drove up that i would be negotiating passage through this checkpoint with a heavily armed individual who, if he decided to shoot me right then and there, actually wouldn't be doing anything illegal. but the sense of vulnerability that i had was absolutely nothing in comparison to the vulnerability of the families that i got to know over that year.you see, life in a society where there are no social institutions is riddled with danger and uncertainty, and simple questions like, "what are we going to eat tonight?" are very complicated to answer. questions about security, when you don't have any security systems, are terrifying. is that altercation i had with the neighbor down the block going to turn into a violent episode that will end my life or my family's life?health concerns when there is no health system are also terrifying. i listened as many families had to sort through questions like, "my infant has a fever. what am i going to do?" "my sister, who is pregnant, is bleeding. what should i do? who should i turn to?" "where are the doctors, where are the nurses? if i could find one, are they trustworthy? how will i pay them? in what currency will i pay them?" "if i need medications, where will i find them? if i take those medications, are they actually counterfeits?" and on and on. so for life in these settings, the dominant theme, the dominant feature of life, is the incredible vulnerability that people have to manage day in and day out, because of the lack of social systems.and it actually turns out that this feature of life is incredibly difficult to explain and be understood by people who are living outside of it. i discovered this when i left kosovo. i came back to boston, i became a physician, i became a global public health policy researcher. i joined the harvard medical school and brigham and women's hospital division of global health. and i, as a researcher, really wanted to get started on this problem right away. i was like, "how do we reduce the crushing vulnerability of people living in these types of fragile settings? is there any way we can start to think about how to protect and quickly recover the institutions that are critical to survival, like the health system?" and i have to say, i had amazing colleagues. but one interesting thing about it was, this was sort of an unusual question for them. they were kind of like, "oh, if you work in war, doesn't that mean you work on refugee camps, and you work on documenting mass atrocities?" — which is, by the way, very, very, very important.so it took me a while to explain why i was so passionate about this issue, until about six years ago. that's when this landmark study that looked at and described the public health consequences of war was published. they came to an incredible, provocative conclusion. these researchers concluded that the vast majority of death and disability from war happens after the cessation of conflict. so the most dangerous time to be a person living in a conflict-affected state is after the cessation of hostilities; it's after the peace deal has been signed. it's when that political solution has been achieved. that seems so puzzling, but of course it's not, because war kills people by robbing them of their clinics, of their hospitals, of their supply chains. their doctors are targeted, are killed; they're on the run. and more invisible and yet more deadly is the destruction of the health governance institutions and their finances.so this is really not surprising at all to me. but what is surprising and somewhat dismaying, is how little impact this insight has had, in terms of how we think about human suffering and war. let me give you a couple examples.last year, you may remember, ebola hit the west african country of liberia. there was a lot of reporting about this group, doctors without borders, sounding the alarm and calling for aid and assistance. but not a lot of that reporting answered the question: why is doctors without borders even in liberia? doctors without borders is an amazing organization, dedicated and designed to provide emergency care in war zones. liberia's civil war had ended in 2003 — that was 11 years before ebola even struck. when ebola struck liberia, there were less than 50 doctors in the entire country of 4.5 million people. doctors without borders is in liberia because liberia still doesn't really have a functioning health system, 11 years later.when the earthquake hit haiti in 2010, the outpouring of international aid was phenomenal. but did you know that only two percent of that funding went to rebuild haitian public institutions, including its health sector? from that perspective, haitians continue to die from the earthquake even today.i recently met this gentleman. this is dr. nezar ismet. he's the minister of health in the northern autonomous region of iraq, in kurdistan. here he is announcing that in the last nine months, his country, his region, has increased from four million people to five million people. that's a 25 percent increase. thousands of these new arrivals have experienced incredible trauma. his doctors are working 16-hour days without pay. his budget has not increased by 25 percent; it has decreased by 20 percent, as funding has flowed to security concerns and to short-term relief efforts. when his health sector fails — and if history is any guide, it will — how do you think that's going to influence the decision making of the five million people in his region as they think about whether they should flee that type of vulnerable living situation?so as you can see, this is a frustrating topic for me, and i really try to understand: why the reluctance to protect and support indigenous health systems and security systems? i usually tier two concerns, two arguments. the first concern is about corruption, and the concern that people in these settings are corrupt and they are untrustworthy. and i will admit that i have met unsavory characters working in health sectors in these situations. but i will tell you that the opposite is absolutely true in every case i have worked on, from afghanistan to libya, to kosovo, to haiti, to liberia — i have met inspiring people, who, when the chips were down for their country, they risked everything to save their health institutions. the trick for the outsider who wants to help is identifying who those individuals are, and building a pathway for them to lead.that is exactly what happened in afghanistan. one of the unsung and untold success stories of our nation-building effort in afghanistan involved the world bank in 2002 investing heavily in identifying, training and promoting afghani health sector leaders. these health sector leaders have pulled off an incredible feat in afghanistan. they have aggressively increased access to health care for the majority of the population. they are rapidly improving the health status of the afghan population, which used to be the worst in the world. in fact, the afghan ministry of health does things that i wish we would do in america. they use things like data to make policy. it's incredible. the other concern i hear a lot about is: "we just can't afford it, we just don't have the money. it's just unsustainable." i would submit to you that the current situation and the current system we have is the most expensive, inefficient system we could possibly conceive of. the current situation is that when governments like the us — or, let's say, the collection of governments that make up the european commission — every year, they spend 15 billion dollars on just humanitarian and emergency and disaster relief worldwide. that's nothing about foreign aid, that's just disaster relief. ninety-five percent of it goes to international relief agencies, that then have to import resources into these areas, and knit together some type of temporary health system, let's say, which they then dismantle and send away when they run out of money.so our job, it turns out, is very clear.we, as the global health community policy experts, our first job is to become experts in how to monitor the strengths and vulnerabilities of health systems in threatened situations. and that's when we see doctors fleeing, when we see health resources drying up, when we see institutions crumbling — that's the emergency. that's when we need to sound the alarm and wave our arms. ok? not now. everyone can see that's an emergency, they don't need us to tell them that.number two: places like where i work at harvard need to take their cue from the world bank experience in afghanistan, and we need to — and we will — build robust platforms to support health sector leaders like these. these people risk their lives. i think we can match their courage with some support.number three: we need to reach out and make new partnerships. at our global health center, we have launched a new initiative with nato and other security policy makers to explore with them what they can do to protect health system institutions during deployments. we want them to see that protecting health systems and other critical social institutions is an integral part of their mission. it's not just about avoiding collateral damage; it's about winning the peace.but the most important partner we need to engage is you, the american public, and indeed, the world public. because unless you understand the value of social institutions, like health systems in these fragile settings, you won't support efforts to save them. you won't click on that article that talks about "hey, all those doctors are on the run in country x. i wonder what that means. i wonder what that means for that health system's ability to, let's say, detect influenza." "hmm, it's probably not good." that's what i'd tell you.up on the screen, i've put up my three favorite american institution defenders and builders. over here is george c. marshall, he was the guy that proposed the marshall plan to save all of europe's economic institutions after world war ii. and this eleanor roosevelt. her work on human rights really serves as the foundation for all of our international human rights organizations. then my big favorite is ben franklin, who did many things in terms of creating institutions, but was the midwife of our constitution.and i would say to you that these are folks who, when our country was threatened, or our world was threatened, they didn't retreat. they didn't talk about building walls. they talked about building institutions to protect human security, for their generation and also for ours. and i think our generation should do the same.thank you. <title = "Who would the rest of the world vote for in your country's election?">
<tags = "['Foreign Policy', 'TEDx', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'democracy', 'economics', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'innovation', 'policy', 'politics', 'social change', 'society', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Policy advisor">
well, as many of you know, the results of the recent election were as follows: hillary clinton, the democratic candidate won a landslide victory with 52 percent of the overall vote. jill stein, the green candidate, came a distant second, with 19 percent. donald j. trump, the republic candidate, was hot on her heels with 14 percent, and the remainder of the vote were shared between abstainers and gary johnson, the libertarian candidate. now, what parallel universe do you suppose i live in? well, i don't live in a parallel universe. i live in the world, and that is how the world voted. so let me take you back and explain what i mean by that.in june this year, i launched something called the global vote. and the global vote does exactly what it says on the tin. for the first time in history, it lets anybody, anywhere in the world, vote in the elections of other people's countries. now, why would you do that? what's the point? well, let me show you what it looks like. you go to a website, rather a beautiful website, and then you select an election. here's a bunch that we've already covered. we do about one a month, or thereabouts. so you can see bulgaria, the united states of america, secretary-general of the united nations, the brexit referendum at the end there. you select the election that you're interested in, and you pick the candidates. these are the candidates from the recent presidential election in the tiny island nation of são tomé and príncipe, 199,000 inhabitants, off the coast of west africa. and then you can look at the brief summary of each of those candidates which i dearly hope is very neutral, very informative and very succinct. and when you've found the one you like, you vote. these were the candidates in the recent icelandic presidential election, and that's the way it goes.so why on earth would you want to vote in another country's election? well, the reason that you wouldn't want to do it, let me reassure you, is in order to interfere in the democratic processes of another country. that's not the purpose at all. in fact, you can't, because usually what i do is i release the results after the electorate in each individual country has already voted, so there's no way that we could interfere in that process. but more importantly, i'm not particularly interested in the domestic issues of individual countries. that's not what we're voting on. so what donald j. trump or hillary clinton proposed to do for the americans is frankly none of our business. that's something that only the americans can vote on.no, in the global vote, you're only considering one aspect of it, which is what are those leaders going to do for the rest of us? and that's so very important because we live, as no doubt you're sick of hearing people tell you, in a globalized, hyperconnected, massively interdependent world where the political decisions of people in other countries can and will have an impact on our lives no matter who we are, no matter where we live. like the wings of the butterfly beating on one side of the pacific that can apparently create a hurricane on the other side, so it is with the world that we live in today and the world of politics. there is no longer a dividing line between domestic and international affairs. any country, no matter how small, even if it's são tomé and príncipe, could produce the next nelson mandela or the next stalin. they could pollute the atmosphere and the oceans, which belong to all of us, or they could be responsible and they could help all of us.and yet, the system is so strange because the system hasn't caught up with this globalized reality. only a small number of people are allowed to vote for those leaders, even though their impact is gigantic and almost universal. what number was it? 140 million americans voted for the next president of the united states, and yet, as all of us knows, in a few weeks time, somebody is going to hand over the nuclear launch codes to donald j. trump. now, if that isn't having a potential impact on all of us, i don't know what is. similarly, the election for the referendum on the brexit vote, a small number of millions of british people voted on that, but the outcome of the vote, whichever way it went, would have had a significant impact on the lives of tens, hundreds of millions of people around the world. and yet, only a tiny number could vote.what kind of democracy is that? huge decisions that affect all of us being decided by relatively very small numbers of people. and i don't know about you, but i don't think that sounds very democratic.so i'm trying to clear it up. but as i say, we don't ask about domestic questions. in fact, i only ever ask two questions of all of the candidates. i send them the same two questions every single time. i say, one, if you get elected, what are you going to do for the rest of us, for the remainder of the seven billion who live on this planet? second question: what is your vision for your country's future in the world? what role do you see it playing? every candidate, i send them those questions. they don't all answer. don't get me wrong. i reckon if you're standing to become the next president of the united states, you're probably pretty tied up most of the time, so i'm not altogether surprised that they don't all answer, but many do. more every time. and some of them do much more than answer. some of them answer in the most enthusiastic and most exciting way you could imagine.i just want to say a word here for saviour chishimba, who was one of the candidates in the recent zambian presidential election. his answers to those two questions were basically an 18-page dissertation on his view of zambia's potential role in the world and in the international community. i posted it on the website so anybody could read it. now, saviour won the global vote, but he didn't win the zambian election.so i found myself wondering, what am i going to do with this extraordinary group of people? i've got some wonderful people here who won the global vote. we always get it wrong, by the way. the one that we elect is never the person who's elected by the domestic electorate. that may be partly because we always seem to go for the woman. but i think it may also be a sign that the domestic electorate is still thinking very nationally. they're still thinking very inwardly. they're still asking themselves: what's in it for me? ... instead of what they should be asking today, which is, what's in it for we?but there you go. so suggestions, please, not right now, but send me an email if you've got an idea about what we can do with this amazing team of glorious losers.  we've got saviour chishimba, who i mentioned before. we've got halla tómasdóttir, who was the runner up in the icelandic presidential election. many of you may have seen her amazing talk at tedwomen just a few weeks ago where she spoke about the need for more women to get into politics. we've got maria das neves from são tomé and príncipe. we've got hillary clinton. i don't know if she's available. we've got jill stein. and we covered also the election for the next secretary-general of the united nations. we've got the ex-prime minister of new zealand, who would be a wonderful member of the team. so i think maybe those people, the glorious loser's club, could travel around the world wherever there's an election and remind people of the necessity in our modern age of thinking a little bit outwards and thinking of the international consequences.so what comes next for the global vote? well, obviously, the donald and hillary show is a bit of a difficult one to follow, but there are some other really important elections coming up. in fact, they seem to be multiplying. there's something going on, i'm sure you've noticed, in the world. and the next row of elections are all critically important. in just a few day's time we've got the rerun of the austrian presidential election, with the prospect of norbert hofer becoming what is commonly described as the first far-right head of state in europe since the second world war. next year we've got germany, we've got france, we've got presidential elections in iran and a dozen others. it doesn't get less important. it gets more and more important.clearly, the global vote is not a stand-alone project. it's not just there on its own. it has some background. it's part of a project which i launched back in 2014, which i call the good country. the idea of the good country is basically very simple. it's my simple diagnosis of what's wrong with the world and how we can fix it. what's wrong with the world i've already hinted at. basically, we face an enormous and growing number of gigantic, existential global challenges: climate change, human rights abuses, mass migration, terrorism, economic chaos, weapons proliferation. all of these problems which threaten to wipe us out are by their very nature globalized problems. no individual country has the capability of tackling them on its own.and so very obviously we have to cooperate and we have to collaborate as nations if we're going to solve these problems. it's so obvious, and yet we don't. we don't do it nearly often enough. most of the time, countries still persist in behaving as if they were warring, selfish tribes battling against each other, much as they have done since the nation-state was invented hundreds of years ago. and this has got to change. this is not a change in political systems or a change in ideology. this is a change in culture.we, all of us, have to understand that thinking inwards is not the solution to the world's problems. we have to learn how to cooperate and collaborate a great deal more and compete just a tiny bit less. otherwise things are going to carry on getting bad and they're going to get much worse, much sooner than we anticipate. this change will only happen if we ordinary people tell our politicians that things have changed. we have to tell them that the culture has changed. we have to tell them that they've got a new mandate. the old mandate was very simple and very single: if you're in a position of power or authority, you're responsible for your own people and your own tiny slice of territory, and that's it. and if in order to do the best thing for your own people, you screw over everybody else on the planet, that's even better. that's considered to be a bit macho. today, i think everybody in a position of power and responsibility has got a dual mandate, which says if you're in a position of power and responsibility, you're responsible for your own people and for every single man, woman, child and animal on the planet. you're responsible for your own slice of territory and for every single square mile of the earth's surface and the atmosphere above it. and if you don't like that responsibility, you should not be in power. that for me is the rule of the modern age, and that's the message that we've got to get across to our politicians, and show them that that's the way things are done these days. otherwise, we're all screwed.i don't have a problem, actually, with donald trump's credo of "america first." it seems to me that that's a pretty banal statement of what politicians have always done and probably should always do. of course they're elected to represent the interests of their own people. but what i find so boring and so old-fashioned and so unimaginative about his take on that is that america first means everyone else last, that making america great again means making everybody else small again, and it's just not true. in my job as a policy advisor over the last 20 years or so, i've seen so many hundreds of examples of policies that harmonize the international and the domestic needs, and they make better policy. i'm not asking nations to be altruistic or self-sacrificing. that would be ridiculous. no nation would ever do that. i'm asking them to wake up and understand that we need a new form of governance, which is possible and which harmonizes those two needs, those good for our own people and those good for everybody else. since the us election and since brexit it's become more and more obvious to me that those old distinctions of left wing and right wing no longer make sense. they really don't fit the pattern. what does seem to matter today is very simple, whether your view of the world is that you take comfort from looking inwards and backwards, or whether, like me, you find hope in looking forwards and outwards. that's the new politics. that's the new division that is splitting the world right down the middle. now, that may sound judgmental, but it's not meant to be. i don't at all misunderstand why so many people find their comfort in looking inwards and backwards. when times are difficult, when you're short of money, when you're feeling insecure and vulnerable, it's almost a natural human tendency to turn inwards, to think of your own needs and to discard everybody else's, and perhaps to start to imagine that the past was somehow better than the present or the future could ever be. but i happen to believe that that's a dead end. history shows us that it's a dead end. when people turn inwards and turn backwards, human progress becomes reversed and things get worse for everybody very quickly indeed. if you're like me and you believe in forwards and outwards, and you believe that the best thing about humanity is its diversity, and the best thing about globalization is the way that it stirs up that diversity, that cultural mixture to make something more creative, more exciting, more productive than there's ever been before in human history, then, my friends, we've got a job on our hands, because the inwards and backwards brigade are uniting as never before, and that creed of inwards and backwards, that fear, that anxiety, playing on the simplest instincts, is sweeping across the world. those of us who believe, as i believe, in forwards and outwards, we have to get ourselves organized, because time is running out very, very quickly.thank you. <title = "3 ways to spot a bad statistic">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'art', 'communication', 'data', 'journalism', 'math', 'social change', 'society', 'statistics', 'storytelling', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Data journalist">
i'm going to be talking about statistics today. if that makes you immediately feel a little bit wary, that's ok, that doesn't make you some kind of crazy conspiracy theorist, it makes you skeptical. and when it comes to numbers, especially now, you should be skeptical. but you should also be able to tell which numbers are reliable and which ones aren't. so today i want to try to give you some tools to be able to do that. but before i do, i just want to clarify which numbers i'm talking about here. i'm not talking about claims like, "9 out of 10 women recommend this anti-aging cream." i think a lot of us always roll our eyes at numbers like that. what's different now is people are questioning statistics like, "the us unemployment rate is five percent." what makes this claim different is it doesn't come from a private company, it comes from the government.about 4 out of 10 americans distrust the economic data that gets reported by government. among supporters of president trump it's even higher; it's about 7 out of 10. i don't need to tell anyone here that there are a lot of dividing lines in our society right now, and a lot of them start to make sense, once you understand people's relationships with these government numbers. on the one hand, there are those who say these statistics are crucial, that we need them to make sense of society as a whole in order to move beyond emotional anecdotes and measure progress in an [objective] way. and then there are the others, who say that these statistics are elitist, maybe even rigged; they don't make sense and they don't really reflect what's happening in people's everyday lives.it kind of feels like that second group is winning the argument right now. we're living in a world of alternative facts, where people don't find statistics this kind of common ground, this starting point for debate. this is a problem. there are actually moves in the us right now to get rid of some government statistics altogether. right now there's a bill in congress about measuring racial inequality. the draft law says that government money should not be used to collect data on racial segregation. this is a total disaster. if we don't have this data, how can we observe discrimination, let alone fix it? in other words: how can a government create fair policies if they can't measure current levels of unfairness? this isn't just about discrimination, it's everything — think about it. how can we legislate on health care if we don't have good data on health or poverty? how can we have public debate about immigration if we can't at least agree on how many people are entering and leaving the country? statistics come from the state; that's where they got their name. the point was to better measure the population in order to better serve it. so we need these government numbers, but we also have to move beyond either blindly accepting or blindly rejecting them. we need to learn the skills to be able to spot bad statistics.i started to learn some of these when i was working in a statistical department that's part of the united nations. our job was to find out how many iraqis had been forced from their homes as a result of the war, and what they needed. it was really important work, but it was also incredibly difficult. every single day, we were making decisions that affected the accuracy of our numbers — decisions like which parts of the country we should go to, who we should speak to, which questions we should ask. and i started to feel really disillusioned with our work, because we thought we were doing a really good job, but the one group of people who could really tell us were the iraqis, and they rarely got the chance to find our analysis, let alone question it. so i started to feel really determined that the one way to make numbers more accurate is to have as many people as possible be able to question them.so i became a data journalist. my job is finding these data sets and sharing them with the public. anyone can do this, you don't have to be a geek or a nerd. you can ignore those words; they're used by people trying to say they're smart while pretending they're humble. absolutely anyone can do this.i want to give you guys three questions that will help you be able to spot some bad statistics. so, question number one is: can you see uncertainty? one of things that's really changed people's relationship with numbers, and even their trust in the media, has been the use of political polls. i personally have a lot of issues with political polls because i think the role of journalists is actually to report the facts and not attempt to predict them, especially when those predictions can actually damage democracy by signaling to people: don't bother to vote for that guy, he doesn't have a chance. let's set that aside for now and talk about the accuracy of this endeavor.based on national elections in the uk, italy, israel and of course, the most recent us presidential election, using polls to predict electoral outcomes is about as accurate as using the moon to predict hospital admissions. no, seriously, i used actual data from an academic study to draw this. there are a lot of reasons why polling has become so inaccurate. our societies have become really diverse, which makes it difficult for pollsters to get a really nice representative sample of the population for their polls. people are really reluctant to answer their phones to pollsters, and also, shockingly enough, people might lie. but you wouldn't necessarily know that to look at the media. for one thing, the probability of a hillary clinton win was communicated with decimal places. we don't use decimal places to describe the temperature. how on earth can predicting the behavior of 230 million voters in this country be that precise? and then there were those sleek charts. see, a lot of data visualizations will overstate certainty, and it works — these charts can numb our brains to criticism. when you hear a statistic, you might feel skeptical. as soon as it's buried in a chart, it feels like some kind of objective science, and it's not.so i was trying to find ways to better communicate this to people, to show people the uncertainty in our numbers. what i did was i started taking real data sets, and turning them into hand-drawn visualizations, so that people can see how imprecise the data is; so people can see that a human did this, a human found the data and visualized it. for example, instead of finding out the probability of getting the flu in any given month, you can see the rough distribution of flu season. this is — a bad shot to show in february. but it's also more responsible data visualization, because if you were to show the exact probabilities, maybe that would encourage people to get their flu jabs at the wrong time.the point of these shaky lines is so that people remember these imprecisions, but also so they don't necessarily walk away with a specific number, but they can remember important facts. facts like injustice and inequality leave a huge mark on our lives. facts like black americans and native americans have shorter life expectancies than those of other races, and that isn't changing anytime soon. facts like prisoners in the us can be kept in solitary confinement cells that are smaller than the size of an average parking space.the point of these visualizations is also to remind people of some really important statistical concepts, concepts like averages. so let's say you hear a claim like, "the average swimming pool in the us contains 6.23 fecal accidents." that doesn't mean every single swimming pool in the country contains exactly 6.23 turds. so in order to show that, i went back to the original data, which comes from the cdc, who surveyed 47 swimming facilities. and i just spent one evening redistributing poop. so you can kind of see how misleading averages can be. ok, so the second question that you guys should be asking yourselves to spot bad numbers is: can i see myself in the data? this question is also about averages in a way, because part of the reason why people are so frustrated with these national statistics, is they don't really tell the story of who's winning and who's losing from national policy. it's easy to understand why people are frustrated with global averages when they don't match up with their personal experiences. i wanted to show people the way data relates to their everyday lives. i started this advice column called "dear mona," where people would write to me with questions and concerns and i'd try to answer them with data. people asked me anything. questions like, "is it normal to sleep in a separate bed to my wife?" "do people regret their tattoos?" "what does it mean to die of natural causes?"all of these questions are great, because they make you think about ways to find and communicate these numbers. if someone asks you, "how much pee is a lot of pee?" which is a question that i got asked, you really want to make sure that the visualization makes sense to as many people as possible. these numbers aren't unavailable. sometimes they're just buried in the appendix of an academic study. and they're certainly not inscrutable; if you really wanted to test these numbers on urination volume, you could grab a bottle and try it for yourself. the point of this isn't necessarily that every single data set has to relate specifically to you. i'm interested in how many women were issued fines in france for wearing the face veil, or the niqab, even if i don't live in france or wear the face veil. the point of asking where you fit in is to get as much context as possible. so it's about zooming out from one data point, like the unemployment rate is five percent, and seeing how it changes over time, or seeing how it changes by educational status — this is why your parents always wanted you to go to college — or seeing how it varies by gender. nowadays, male unemployment rate is higher than the female unemployment rate. up until the early '80s, it was the other way around. this is a story of one of the biggest changes that's happened in american society, and it's all there in that chart, once you look beyond the averages. the axes are everything; once you change the scale, you can change the story.ok, so the third and final question that i want you guys to think about when you're looking at statistics is: how was the data collected? so far, i've only talked about the way data is communicated, but the way it's collected matters just as much. i know this is tough, because methodologies can be opaque and actually kind of boring, but there are some simple steps you can take to check this.i'll use one last example here. one poll found that 41 percent of muslims in this country support jihad, which is obviously pretty scary, and it was reported everywhere in 2015. when i want to check a number like that, i'll start off by finding the original questionnaire. it turns out that journalists who reported on that statistic ignored a question lower down on the survey that asked respondents how they defined "jihad." and most of them defined it as, "muslims' personal, peaceful struggle to be more religious." only 16 percent defined it as, "violent holy war against unbelievers." this is the really important point: based on those numbers, it's totally possible that no one in the survey who defined it as violent holy war also said they support it. those two groups might not overlap at all.it's also worth asking how the survey was carried out. this was something called an opt-in poll, which means anyone could have found it on the internet and completed it. there's no way of knowing if those people even identified as muslim. and finally, there were 600 respondents in that poll. there are roughly three million muslims in this country, according to pew research center. that means the poll spoke to roughly one in every 5,000 muslims in this country.this is one of the reasons why government statistics are often better than private statistics. a poll might speak to a couple hundred people, maybe a thousand, or if you're l'oreal, trying to sell skin care products in 2005, then you spoke to 48 women to claim that they work. private companies don't have a huge interest in getting the numbers right, they just need the right numbers. government statisticians aren't like that. in theory, at least, they're totally impartial, not least because most of them do their jobs regardless of who's in power. they're civil servants. and to do their jobs properly, they don't just speak to a couple hundred people. those unemployment numbers i keep on referencing come from the bureau of labor statistics, and to make their estimates, they speak to over 140,000 businesses in this country.i get it, it's frustrating. if you want to test a statistic that comes from a private company, you can buy the face cream for you and a bunch of friends, test it out, if it doesn't work, you can say the numbers were wrong. but how do you question government statistics? you just keep checking everything. find out how they collected the numbers. find out if you're seeing everything on the chart you need to see. but don't give up on the numbers altogether, because if you do, we'll be making public policy decisions in the dark, using nothing but private interests to guide us.thank you. <title = "A young inventor's plan to recycle Styrofoam">
<tags = "['TED-Ed', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'innovation', 'invention', 'materials', 'pollution', 'product design', 'science', 'technology', 'water', 'wunderkind']">
<occupation = "Youth inventor">
it was just an ordinary saturday. my dad was outside mowing the lawn, my mom was upstairs folding laundry, my sister was in her room doing homework and i was in the basement playing video games. and as i came upstairs to get something to drink, i looked out the window and realized that there was something that i was supposed to be doing, and this is what i saw.no, this wasn't my family's dinner on fire. this was my science project. flames were pouring out, smoke was in the air and it looked like our wooden deck was about to catch fire. i immediately started yelling. my mom was freaking out, my dad ran around to put out the fire and of course my sister started recording a snapchat video. this was just the beginning of my team's science project. my team is composed of me and three other students who are here in the audience today. we competed in first lego league which is an international lego robotics competition for kids, and in addition to a robotics game, we also worked on a separate science project, and this was the project that we were working on.so the idea for this project all started when a few months earlier, a couple of my teammates took a trip to central america and saw beaches littered with styrofoam, or expanded polystyrene foam. and when they came back and told us about it, we really started thinking about the ways in which we see styrofoam every day. get a new flat-screen tv? you end up with a block of styrofoam bigger than the tv itself. drink a cup of coffee? well, those styrofoam coffee cups are sure going to add up. and where do all these items go after their one-time use? since there aren't any good existing solutions for used styrofoam, almost all of them end up right in the landfill, or the oceans and beaches, taking over 500 years to degrade. and in fact, every year, the us alone produces over two billion pounds of styrofoam, filling up a staggering 25 percent of landfills.so why do we have these ghost accumulations of styrofoam waste? why can't we just recycle them like many plastics? well, simply put, recycled polystyrene is too expensive and potentially contaminated, so there is very little market demand for styrofoam that has to be recycled. and as a result, styrofoam is considered a nonrenewable material, because it is neither feasible nor viable to recycle polystyrene. and in fact, many cities across the us have even passed ordinances that simply ban the production of many products containing polystyrene, which includes disposable utensils, packing peanuts, takeout containers and even plastic beach toys, all products that are very useful in today's society. and now france has become the first country to completely ban all plastic utensils, cups and plates.but what if we could keep using styrofoam and keep benefiting from its cheap, lightweight, insulating and excellent packing ability, while not having to suffer from the repercussions of having to dispose of it? what if we could turn it into something else that's actually useful? what if we could make the impossible possible?my team hypothesized that we could use the carbon that's already in styrofoam to create activated carbon, which is used in almost every water filter today. and activated carbon works by using very small micropores to filter out contaminants from water or even air.so we started out by doing a variety of heating tests, and unfortunately, we had many failures. literally, nothing worked. besides my dad's grill catching on fire, most of our samples vaporized into nothing, or exploded inside expensive furnaces, leaving a horribly sticky mess. in fact, we were so saddened by our failures that we almost gave up.so why did we keep trying when all the adults said it was impossible? well, maybe it's because we're kids. we don't know any better. but the truth is, we kept trying because we thought it was still possible. we knew that if we were successful, we would be helping the environment and making the world a better place. so we kept trying and failing and trying and failing. we were so ready to give up.but then it happened. with the right temperatures, times and chemicals, we finally got that successful test result showing us that we had created activated carbon from styrofoam waste. and at that moment, the thing that had been impossible all of a sudden wasn't. it showed us that although we had many failures at the beginning, we were able to persevere through them to get the test results that we wanted. and moreover, not only were we able to create activated carbon for purifying water, but we were also able to reduce styrofoam waste, solving two global problems with just one solution.so from then on, we were inspired to take our project further, performing more tests to make it more effective and testing it in real world situations. we then proceeded to receive funding from the nsta's ecybermission stem-in-action program sponsored by the us army, as well as first global innovation awards sponsored by xprize. and we were also honored with the scientific american innovator award from google science fair. and using these funds, we plan to file a full patent on our process and to continue to work on our project.so yes, although we started with catching my dad's grill on fire and failing so many times that we almost quit, it was well worth it when we look back at it now. we took a problem that many people said was impossible and we made it possible, and we persevered when it looked like nothing that we did would work. we learned that you can't have success without a little, or a lot, of failure.so in the future, don't be afraid if your grill goes up in flames, because you never know when your idea might just catch fire.thank you. <title = "What we don't know about mother's milk">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'activism', 'animals', 'anthropology', 'bacteria', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'children', 'disease', 'government', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'life', 'medicine', 'nature', 'parenting', 'science', 'women']">
<occupation = "Lactation researcher">
have you ever heard the one about how breastfeeding is free? yeah, it's pretty funny, because it's only free if we don't value women's time and energy. any mother can tell you how much time and energy it takes to liquify her body — to literally dissolve herself — as she feeds this precious little cannibal. milk is why mammals suck. at arizona state university, in the comparative lactation lab, i decode mothers' milk composition to understand its complexity and how it influences infant development. the most important thing that i've learned is that we do not do enough to support mothers and babies. and when we fail mothers and babies, we fail everyone who loves mothers and babies: the fathers, the partners, the grandparents, the aunties, the friends and kin that make our human social networks. it's time that we abandon simple solutions and simple slogans, and grapple with the nuance.i was very fortunate to run smack-dab into that nuance very early, during my first interview with a journalist when she asked me, "how long should a mother breastfeed her baby?" and it was that word "should" that brought me up short, because i will never tell a woman what she should do with her body.babies survive and thrive because their mother's milk is food, medicine and signal. for young infants, mother's milk is a complete diet that provides all the building blocks for their bodies, that shapes their brain and fuels all of their activity. mother's milk also feeds the microbes that are colonizing the infant's intestinal tract. mothers aren't just eating for two, they're eating for two to the trillions. milk provides immunofactors that help fight pathogens and mother's milk provides hormones that signal to the infant's body.but in recent decades, we have come to take milk for granted. we stopped seeing something in plain sight. we began to think of milk as standardized, homogenized, pasteurized, packaged, powdered, flavored and formulated. we abandoned the milk of human kindness and turned our priorities elsewhere.at the national institutes of health in washington dc is the national library of medicine, which contains 25 million articles — the brain trust of life science and biomedical research. we can use keywords to search that database, and when we do that, we discover nearly a million articles about pregnancy, but far fewer about breast milk and lactation. when we zoom in on the number of articles just investigating breast milk, we see that we know much more about coffee, wine and tomatoes. we know over twice as much about erectile dysfunction. i'm not saying we shouldn't know about those things — i'm a scientist, i think we should know about everything. but that we know so much less — about breast milk — the first fluid a young mammal is adapted to consume — should make us angry. globally, nine out of 10 women will have at least one child in her lifetime. that means that nearly 130 million babies are born each year. these mothers and babies deserve our best science.recent research has shown that milk doesn't just grow the body, it fuels behavior and shapes neurodevelopment. in 2015, researchers discovered that the mixture of breast milk and baby saliva — specifically, baby saliva — causes a chemical reaction that produces hydrogen peroxide that can kill staph and salmonella. and from humans and other mammal species, we're starting to understand that the biological recipe of milk can be different when produced for sons or daughters. when we reach for donor milk in the neonatal intensive care unit, or formula on the store shelf, it's nearly one-size-fits-all. we aren't thinking about how sons and daughters may grow at different rates, or different ways, and that milk may be a part of that.mothers have gotten the message and the vast majority of mothers intend to breastfeed, but many do not reach their breastfeeding goals. that is not their failure; it's ours. increasingly common medical conditions like obesity, endocrine disorders, c-section and preterm births all can disrupt the underlying biology of lactation. and many women do not have knowledgeable clinical support.twenty-five years ago, the world health organization and unicef established criteria for hospitals to be considered baby friendly — that provide the optimal level of support for mother-infant bonding and infant feeding. today, only one in five babies in the united states is born in a baby-friendly hospital. this is a problem, because mothers can grapple with many problems in the minutes, hours, days and weeks of lactation. they can have struggles with establishing latch, with pain, with milk letdown and perceptions of milk supply. these mothers deserve knowledgeable clinical staff that understand these processes.mothers will call me as they're grappling with these struggles, crying with wobbly voices. "it's not working. this is what i'm supposed to naturally be able to do. why is it not working?" and just because something is evolutionarily ancient doesn't mean that it's easy or that we're instantly good at it. you know what else is evolutionarily ancient? sex. and nobody expects us to start out being good at it. clinicians best deliver quality equitable care when they have continuing education about how to best support lactation and breastfeeding. and in order to have that continuing education, we need to anchor it to cutting-edge research in both the life sciences and the social sciences, because we need to recognize that too often historical traumas and implicit biases sit in the space between a new mother and her clinician. the body is political. if our breastfeeding support is not intersectional, it's not good enough. and for moms who have to return for work, because countries like the united states do not provide paid parental leave, they can have to go back in as short as just a few days after giving birth.how do we optimize mother and infant health just by messaging about breast milk to moms without providing the institutional support that facilitates that mother-infant bonding to support breastfeeding? the answer is: we can't. i'm talking to you, legislators, and the voters who elect them. i'm talking to you, job creators and collective bargaining units, and workers, and shareholders. we all have a stake in the public health of our community, and we all have a role to play in achieving it. breast milk is a part of improving human health. in the nicu, when infants are born early or sick or injured, milk or bioactive constituents in milk can be critically important. environments or ecologies, or communities where there's high risk of infectious disease, breast milk can be incredibly protective. where there are emergencies like storms and earthquakes, when the electricity goes out, when safe water is not available, breast milk can keep babies fed and hydrated. and in the context of humanitarian crises, like syrian mothers fleeing war zones, the smallest drops can buffer babies from the biggest global challenges.but understanding breast milk is not just about messaging to mothers and policy makers. it's also about understanding what is important in breast milk so that we can deliver better formulas to moms who cannot or do not breastfeed for whatever reason. we can all do a better job of supporting the diversity of moms raising their babies in a diversity of ways.as women around the world struggle to achieve political, social and economic equality, we must reimagine motherhood as not the central, core aspect of womanhood, but one of the many potential facets of what makes women awesome.it's time. <title = "Addiction is a disease. We should treat it like one">
<tags = "['Addiction', 'HIV', 'LGBT', 'TEDx', 'communication', 'community', 'disease', 'government', 'humanity', 'identity', 'law', 'policy', 'public health', 'self', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Drug policy expert">
twenty-eight years ago, i was a broken man. and you probably wouldn't be able to tell that if you met me. i had a good job at a well-respected academic institution. i dressed well, of course. but my insides were rotting away. you see, i grew up in a family riddled with addiction, and as a kid, i also struggled with coming to terms with my own sexuality. and even though i couldn't name it then, growing up as a gay kid just compounded my issues of isolation and insecurities. but drinking took all of that away.like many, i drank at an early age. i continued to drink my way through college. and when i finally did come out in the early 1980s, about the only places to meet other gay people, to socialize, to be yourself, were gay bars. and what do you do in gay bars? you drink. and i did — a lot.my story is not unique. like millions of americans, my disease progressed undiagnosed. it took me to people and places and things that i never would have chosen. it wasn't until an intersection with the law gave me an "opportunity" to get care, that i began my journey of recovery.my journey of recovery has been filled with love and with joy, but it hasn't been without pain. like many of you, i've lost too many friends and family to this disease. i've heard too many heartbreaking stories of people who've lost loved ones to addiction. and i've also lost countless friends to hiv and aids.our current opioid epidemic and the aids epidemic tragically have much in common. right now, we are in the midst of one of the greatest health crises of our time. during 2014 alone, 28,000 people died of drug overdoses associated with prescription drugs and heroin. during the 1980s, scores of people were dying from hiv and aids. public officials ignored it. some wouldn't even utter the words. they didn't want treatment. and tragically, there are many parallels with our current epidemic. some called it the gay plague. they called for quarantines. they wanted to separate the innocent victims from the rest of us. i was afraid we were losing this battle because people were blaming us for being sick. public policy was being held hostage by stigma and fear, and also held hostage were compassion, care, research, recovery and treatment.but we changed all that. because out of the pain of those deaths, we saw a social and political movement. aids galvanized us into action; to stand up, to speak up and to act out. and it also galvanized the lgbt movement. we knew we were in a battle for our lives because silence equaled death, but we changed, and we made things happen. and right now, we have the potential to see the end of hiv/aids in our lifetime. these changes came in no small part by the courageous, yet simple decision for people to come out to their neighbors, to their friends, to their families and to their coworkers.years ago, i was a volunteer for the names project. this was an effort started by cleve jones in san francisco to show that people who died of aids had names and faces and families and people who loved them. i still recall unfolding the aids memorial quilt on the national mall on a brilliant day in october, 1988.so fast forward to 2015. the supreme court's decision to strike down the ban on same-sex marriage. my husband, dave, and i walk over to the steps of the supreme court to celebrate that decision with so many other people, and i couldn't help but think how far we came around lgbt rights and yet how far we needed to go around issues of addiction.when i was nominated by president obama to be his director of drug policy, i was very open about my recovery and about the fact that i was a gay man. and at no point during my confirmation process — at least that i know of — did the fact that i was a gay man come to bear on my candidacy or my fitness to do this job. but my addiction did. at one point, a congressional staffer said that there was no way that i was going to be confirmed by the united states senate because of my past, despite the fact that i had been in recovery for over 20 years, and despite the fact that this job takes a little bit of knowledge around addiction. so, you know, this is the stigma that people with substance use disorders face every single day, and you know, i have to tell you it's still why i'm more comfortable coming out as a gay man than i am as a person with a history of addiction.nearly every family in america is affected by addiction. yet, unfortunately, too often, it's not talked about openly and honestly. it's whispered about. it's met with derision and scorn. we hear these stories, time and time again, on tv, online, we hear it from public officials, and we hear it from family and friends. and those of us with an addiction, we hear those voices, and somehow we believe that we are less deserving of care and treatment. today in the united states, only one in nine people get care and treatment for their disorder. one in nine. think about that.generally, people with other diseases get care and treatment. if you have cancer, you get treatment, if you have diabetes, you get treatment. if you have a heart attack, you get emergency services, and you get referred to care. but somehow people with addiction have to wait for treatment or often can't get when they need it. and left untreated, addiction has significant, dire consequences. and for many people that means death or incarceration. we've been down that road before.for too long our country felt like we could arrest our way out of this problem. but we know that we can't. decades of scientific research has shown that this is a medical issue — that this is a chronic medical condition that people inherit and that people develop.so the obama administration has taken a different tack on drug policy. we've developed and implemented a comprehensive plan to expand prevention services, treatment services, early intervention and recovery support. we've pushed criminal justice reform. we've knocked down barriers to give people second chances. we see public health and public safety officials working hand in hand at the community level. we see police chiefs across the country guiding people to treatment instead of jail and incarceration. we see law enforcement and other first responders reversing overdoses with naloxone to give people a second chance for care. the affordable care act is the biggest expansion of substance use disorder treatment in a generation, and it also calls for the integration of treatment services within primary care. but fundamentally, all of this work is not enough. unless we change the way that we view people with addiction in the united states.years ago when i finally understood that i had a problem and i knew that i needed help, i was too afraid to ask for it. i felt that people would think i was stupid, that i was weak-willed, that i was morally flawed. but i talk about my recovery because i want to make change. i want us to see that we need to be open and candid about who we are and what we can do. i am public about my own recovery not to be self-congratulatory. i am open about my own recovery to change public opinion, to change public policy and to change the course of this epidemic and empower the millions of americans who struggle with this journey to be open and candid about who they are. people are more than their disease. and all of us have the opportunity to change public opinion and to change public policy.all of us know someone who has an addiction, and all of us can do our part to change how we view people with addiction in the united states. so when you see someone with an addiction, don't think of a drunk or a junkie or an addict or an abuser — see a person; offer them help; give them kindness and compassion. and together, we can be part of a growing movement in the united states to change how we view people with addiction.together we can change public policy. we can ensure that people get care when they need it, just like any other disease. we can be part of a growing, unstoppable movement to have millions of americans enter recovery, and put an end to this epidemic.thank you very much. <title = "How early life experience is written into DNA">
<tags = "['DNA', 'TEDx', 'animals', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'cancer', 'children', 'disease', 'genetics', 'health', 'life', 'medicine', 'nature', 'pregnancy', 'primates', 'science']">
<occupation = "Epigeneticist">
so it all came to life in a dark bar in madrid. i encountered my colleague from mcgill, michael meaney. and we were drinking a few beers, and like scientists do, he told me about his work. and he told me that he is interested in how mother rats lick their pups after they were born. and i was sitting there and saying, "this is where my tax dollars are wasted — on this kind of soft science."and he started telling me that the rats, like humans, lick their pups in very different ways. some mothers do a lot of that, some mothers do very little, and most are in between. but what's interesting about it is when he follows these pups when they become adults — like, years in human life, long after their mother died. they are completely different animals. the animals that were licked and groomed heavily, the high-licking and grooming, are not stressed. they have different sexual behavior. they have a different way of living than those that were not treated as intensively by their mothers.so then i was thinking to myself: is this magic? how does this work? as geneticists would like you to think, perhaps the mother had the "bad mother" gene that caused her pups to be stressful, and then it was passed from generation to generation; it's all determined by genetics. or is it possible that something else is going on here?in rats, we can ask this question and answer it. so what we did is a cross-fostering experiment. you essentially separate the litter, the babies of this rat, at birth, to two kinds of fostering mothers — not the real mothers, but mothers that will take care of them: high-licking mothers and low-licking mothers. and you can do the opposite with the low-licking pups. and the remarkable answer was, it wasn't important what gene you got from your mother. it was not the biological mother that defined this property of these rats. it is the mother that took care of the pups. so how can this work?i am an a epigeneticist. i am interested in how genes are marked by a chemical mark during embryogenesis, during the time we're in the womb of our mothers, and decide which gene will be expressed in what tissue. different genes are expressed in the brain than in the liver and the eye. and we thought: is it possible that the mother is somehow reprogramming the gene of her offspring through her behavior? and we spent 10 years, and we found that there is a cascade of biochemical events by which the licking and grooming of the mother, the care of the mother, is translated to biochemical signals that go into the nucleus and into the dna and program it differently. so now the animal can prepare itself for life: is life going to be harsh? is there going to be a lot of food? are there going to be a lot of cats and snakes around, or will i live in an upper-class neighborhood where all i have to do is behave well and proper, and that will gain me social acceptance? and now one can think about how important that process can be for our lives.we inherit our dna from our ancestors. the dna is old. it evolved during evolution. but it doesn't tell us if you are going to be born in stockholm, where the days are long in the summer and short in the winter, or in ecuador, where there's an equal number of hours for day and night all year round. and that has such an enormous [effect] on our physiology. so what we suggest is, perhaps what happens early in life, those signals that come through the mother, tell the child what kind of social world you're going to be living in. it will be harsh, and you'd better be anxious and be stressful, or it's going to be an easy world, and you have to be different. is it going to be a world with a lot of light or little light? is it going to be a world with a lot of food or little food? if there's no food around, you'd better develop your brain to binge whenever you see a meal, or store every piece of food that you have as fat.so this is good. evolution has selected this to allow our fixed, old dna to function in a dynamic way in new environments. but sometimes things can go wrong; for example, if you're born to a poor family and the signals are, "you better binge, you better eat every piece of food you're going to encounter." but now we humans and our brain have evolved, have changed evolution even faster. now you can buy mcdonald's for one dollar. and therefore, the preparation that we had by our mothers is turning out to be maladaptive. the same preparation that was supposed to protect us from hunger and famine is going to cause obesity, cardiovascular problems and metabolic disease. so this concept that genes could be marked by our experience, and especially the early life experience, can provide us a unifying explanation of both health and disease.but is true only for rats? the problem is, we cannot test this in humans, because ethically, we cannot administer child adversity in a random way. so if a poor child develops a certain property, we don't know whether this is caused by poverty or whether poor people have bad genes. so geneticists will try to tell you that poor people are poor because their genes make them poor. epigeneticists will tell you poor people are in a bad environment or an impoverished environment that creates that phenotype, that property.so we moved to look into our cousins, the monkeys. my colleague, stephen suomi, has been rearing monkeys in two different ways: randomly separated the monkey from the mother and reared her with a nurse and surrogate motherhood conditions. so these monkeys didn't have a mother; they had a nurse. and other monkeys were reared with their normal, natural mothers. and when they were old, they were completely different animals. the monkeys that had a mother did not care about alcohol, they were not sexually aggressive. the monkeys that didn't have a mother were aggressive, were stressed and were alcoholics. so we looked at their dna early after birth, to see: is it possible that the mother is marking? is there a signature of the mother in the dna of the offspring?these are day-14 monkeys, and what you see here is the modern way by which we study epigenetics. we can now map those chemical marks, which we call methylation marks, on dna at a single nucleotide resolution. we can map the entire genome. we can now compare the monkey that had a mother or not. and here's a visual presentation of this. what you see is the genes that got more methylated are red. the genes that got less methylated are green. you can see many genes are changing, because not having a mother is not just one thing — it affects the whole way; it sends signals about the whole way your world is going to look when you become an adult. and you can see the two groups of monkeys extremely well-separated from each other. how early does this develop? these monkeys already didn't see their mothers, so they had a social experience. do we sense our social status, even at the moment of birth?so in this experiment, we took placentas of monkeys that had different social status. what's interesting about social rank is that across all living beings, they will structure themselves by hierarchy. monkey number one is the boss; monkey number four is the peon. you put four monkeys in a cage, there will always be a boss and always be a peon. and what's interesting is that the monkey number one is much healthier than monkey number four. and if you put them in a cage, monkey number one will not eat as much. monkey number four will eat [a lot]. and what you see here in this methylation mapping, a dramatic separation at birth of the animals that had a high social status versus the animals that did not have a high status.so we are born already knowing the social information, and that social information is not bad or good, it just prepares us for life, because we have to program our biology differently if we are in the high or the low social status.but how can you study this in humans? we can't do experiments, we can't administer adversity to humans. but god does experiments with humans, and it's called natural disasters.one of the hardest natural disasters in canadian history happened in my province of quebec. it's the ice storm of 1998. we lost our entire electrical grid because of an ice storm when the temperatures were, in the dead of winter in quebec, minus 20 to minus 30. and there were pregnant mothers during that time. and my colleague suzanne king followed the children of these mothers for 15 years.and what happened was, that as the stress increased — and here we had objective measures of stress: how long were you without power? where did you spend your time? was it in your mother-in-law's apartment or in some posh country home? so all of these added up to a social stress scale, and you can ask the question: how did the children look? and it appears that as stress increases, the children develop more autism, they develop more metabolic diseases and they develop more autoimmune diseases. we would map the methylation state, and again, you see the green genes becoming red as stress increases, the red genes becoming green as stress increases, an entire rearrangement of the genome in response to stress.so if we can program genes, if we are not just the slaves of the history of our genes, that they could be programmed, can we deprogram them? because epigenetic causes can cause diseases like cancer, metabolic disease and mental health diseases.let's talk about cocaine addiction. cocaine addiction is a terrible situation that can lead to death and to loss of human life. we asked the question: can we reprogram the addicted brain to make that animal not addicted anymore? we used a cocaine addiction model that recapitulates what happens in humans. in humans, you're in high school, some friends suggest you use some cocaine, you take cocaine, nothing happens. months pass by, something reminds you of what happened the first time, a pusher pushes cocaine, and you become addicted and your life has changed.in rats, we do the same thing. my colleague, gal yadid, he trains the animals to get used to cocaine, then for one month, no cocaine. then he reminds them of the party when they saw the cocaine the first time by cue, the colors of the cage when they saw cocaine. and they go crazy. they will press the lever to get cocaine until they die. we first determined that the difference between these animals is that during that time when nothing happens, there's no cocaine around, their epigenome is rearranged. their genes are re-marked in a different way, and when the cue comes, their genome is ready to develop this addictive phenotype.so we treated these animals with drugs that either increase dna methylation, which was the epigenetic marker to look at, or decrease epigenetic markings. and we found that if we increased methylation, these animals go even crazier. they become more craving for cocaine. but if we reduce the dna methylation, the animals are not addicted anymore. we have reprogrammed them. and a fundamental difference between an epigenetic drug and any other drug is that with epigenetic drugs, we essentially remove the signs of experience, and once they're gone, they will not come back unless you have the same experience. the animal now is reprogrammed. so when we visited the animals 30 days, 60 days later, which is in human terms many years of life, they were still not addicted — by a single epigenetic treatment.so what did we learn about dna? dna is not just a sequence of letters; it's not just a script. dna is a dynamic movie. our experiences are being written into this movie, which is interactive. you're, like, watching a movie of your life, with the dna, with your remote control. you can remove an actor and add an actor. and so you have, in spite of the deterministic nature of genetics, you have control of the way your genes look, and this has a tremendous optimistic message for the ability to now encounter some of the deadly diseases like cancer, mental health, with a new approach, looking at them as maladaptation. and if we can epigenetically intervene, [we can] reverse the movie by removing an actor and setting up a new narrative.so what i told you today is, our dna is really combined of two components, two layers of information. one layer of information is old, evolved from millions of years of evolution. it is fixed and very hard to change. the other layer of information is the epigenetic layer, which is open and dynamic and sets up a narrative that is interactive, that allows us to control, to a large extent, our destiny, to help the destiny of our children and to hopefully conquer disease and serious health challenges that have plagued humankind for a long time.so even though we are determined by our genes, we have a degree of freedom that can set up our life to a life of responsibility.thank you. <title = "A young poet tells the story of Darfur">
<tags = "['Africa', 'TEDMED', 'art', 'children', 'communication', 'family', 'humanity', 'identity', 'language', 'performance', 'poetry', 'refugees', 'spoken word', 'storytelling', 'war', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Poet">
i was 10 years old when i learned what the word "genocide" meant. it was 2003, and my people were being brutally attacked because of their race — hundreds of thousands murdered, millions displaced, a nation torn apart at the hands of its own government.my mother and father immediately began speaking out against the crisis. i didn't really understand it, except for the fact that it was destroying my parents. one day, i walked in on my mother crying, and i asked her why we are burying so many people. i don't remember the words that she chose to describe genocide to her 10-year-old daughter, but i remember the feeling. we felt completely alone, as if no one could hear us, as if we were essentially invisible.this is when i wrote my first poem about darfur. i wrote poetry to convince people to hear and see us, and that's how i learned the thing that changed me. it's easy to be seen. i mean, look at me — i'm a young african woman with a scarf around my head, an american accent on my tongue and a story that makes even the most brutal of monday mornings seem inviting. but it's hard to convince people that they deserve to be seen. i learned this in my high school classroom one day, when my teacher asked me to give a presentation about darfur. i was setting up the projector when a classmate of mine said, "why do you have to talk about this? can't you think about us and how it will make us feel?" my 14-year-old self didn't know what to say to her, or how to explain the pain that i felt in that moment, and in every moment that we were forced not to talk about "this." her words took me back to the days and nights on the ground in darfur, where we were forced to remain silent; where we didn't speak over morning tea because the warplanes overhead would swallow any and all noise; back to the days when we were told not only that we don't deserve to be heard but that we do not have a right to exist. and this is where the magic happened, in that classroom when all the students started taking their seats and i began to speak, despite this renewed feeling that i didn't deserve to be there, that i didn't belong there or have a right to break the silence.as i talked, and my classmates listened, the fear ebbed away. my mind became calm, and i felt safe. it was the sound of our grieving, the feel of their arms around me, the steady walls that held us together. it felt nothing like a vacuum.i choose poetry because it's so visceral. when someone is standing in front of you, mind, body and soul, saying "witness me," it's impossible not to become keenly aware of your own humanity. this changed everything for me. it gave me courage. every day i experience the power of witness, and because of that, i am whole. and so now i ask: will you witness me?they hand me the microphone as my shoulders sink under the weight of this stress.the woman says, "the one millionth refugee just left south sudan. can you comment?"i feel my feet rock back and forth on the heels my mother bought,begging the question:do we stay, or is it safer to choose flight?my mind echoes the numbers:one million gone,two million displaced,400,000 dead in darfur.and this lump takes over my throat,as if each of those bodies just found a graveright here in my esophagus.our once country,all north and south and east and west,so restless the nile couldn't hold us together,and you ask me to summarize.they talk about the numbers as if this isn't still happening,as if 500,000 didn't just die in syria,as if 3,000 aren't still making their final standat the bottom of the mediterranean,as if there aren't entire volumes full of fact sheets about our genocides,and now they want me to write one.fact:we never talked over breakfast,because the warplanes would swallow our voices.fact:my grandfather didn't want to leave home,so he died in a war zone.fact:a burning bush without god is just a fire.i measure the distance between what i knowand what is safe to say on a microphone.do i talk about sorrow? displacement?do i mention the violence,how it's never as simple as what you see on tv,how there are weeks' worth of fear before the camera is on?do i tell her about our bodies,how they are 60 percent water,but we still burn like driftwood,making fuel of our sacrifice?do i tell her the men died first, mothers forced to watch the slaughter?that they came for our children,scattering them across the continent until our homes sank?that even castles sink at the bite of the bomb?do i talk about the elderly, our heroes,too weak to run, too expensive to shoot,how they would march them,hands raised, rifles at their backs, into the fire?how their walking sticks kept the flames alive?it feels too harsh for a bundle of wires and an audience to swallow.too relentless,like the valley that filled with the putrid smoke of our deaths.is it better in verse?can a stanza become a burial shroud?will it sting less if i say it softly?if you don't see me cry, will you listen better?will the pain leave when the microphone does?why does every word feel as if i'm saying my last?thirty seconds for the sound bite,and now three minutes for the poem.my tongue goes dry the same way we died,becoming ash, having never been coal.i feel my left leg go numb,and i realize that i locked my knees, bracing for impact.i never wear shoes i can't run in.thank you. so, i wanted to leave on a positive note, because that's the paradox that this life has been: in the places where i learned to cry the most, i also learned how to smile after. so, here goes."you have a big imagination or 400,000 ways to cry."for zeinab.i am a sad girl,but my face makes other plans,focusing energy on this smile, so as not to waste it on pain.the first thing they took was my sleep,eyes heavy but wide open,thinking maybe i missed something,maybe the cavalry is still coming.they didn't come,so i bought bigger pillows. my grandmother could cure anythingby talking the life out of it.and she said that i could make a thief in a silo laugh in the middle of our raging war.war makes a broken marriage bed out of sorrow.you want nothing more than to disappear,but your heart can't salvage enough remnants to leave.but joy —joy is the armor we carried across the borders of our broken homeland.a hasty mix of stories and faces that lasts long after the flavor is gone.a muscle memory that overcomes even the most bitter of times,my memory is spotted with days of laughing until i cried,or crying until i laughed.laughter and tears are both involuntary human reactions,testaments to our capacity for expression.so allow me to expressthat if i make you laugh, it's usually on purpose.and if i make you cry, i'll still think you are beautiful.this is for my cousin zeinab,bedridden on a random afternoon.i hadn't seen her since the last time we were in sudan together,and there i was at her hospital bedsidein a 400-year-old building in france.zeinab wanted to hear poems.suddenly, english, arabic and french were not enough.every word i knew became empty noise,and zeinab said, "well, get on with it." and i read her everything that i could, and we laughed, and we loved it,and it was the most important stage that i've ever stood on,surrounded by family,by remnants of a people who were given as a dowry to a relentless warbut still managed to make pearls of this life;by the ones who taught me to not only laugh,but to live in the face of death;who placed their hands across the sky,measuring the distance to the sun and saying, "smile; i'm gonna meet you there."and for zeinab —zeinab, who taught me love in a place like france,zeinab, who wanted to he.ar poems on her deathbed —dilated fibromyalgia.her heart muscles expanded until they couldn't function.and she held me, and she made me feel like gold.and i said, "zeinab,isn't it strange that your only problemis that your heart was too big?"thank you. <title = "Know your worth, and then ask for it">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'TEDx', 'behavioral economics', 'business', 'economics', 'entrepreneur', 'finance', 'goal-setting', 'inequality', 'personal growth', 'society', 'women', 'women in business', 'work']">
<occupation = "Pricing consultant">
no one will ever pay you what you're worth. no one will ever pay you what you're worth. they'll only ever pay you what they think you're worth. and you control their thinking, not like this, although that would be cool. that would be really cool. instead, like this: clearly defining and communicating your value are essential to being paid well for your excellence.anyone here want to be paid well? ok, good, then this talk is for everyone. it's got universal applicability. it's true if you're a business owner, if you're an employee, if you're a job seeker. it's true if you're a man or a woman.now, i approach this today through the lens of the woman business owner, because in my work i've observed that women underprice more so than men. the gender wage gap is a well-traveled narrative in this country. according to the bureau of labor statistics, a woman employee earns just 83 cents for every dollar a man earns. what may surprise you is that this trend continues even into the entrepreneurial sphere. a woman business owner earns just 80 cents for every dollar a man earns. in my work, i've often heard women express that they're uncomfortable communicating their value, especially early on in business ownership. they say things like, "i don't like to toot my own horn." "i'd rather let the work speak for itself." "i don't like to sing my own praises."i hear very different narratives in working with male business owners, and i think this difference is costing women 20 cents on the dollar.i'd like to tell you the story of a consulting firm that helps their clients dramatically improve their profitability. that company is my company. after my first year in business, i saw the profit increases that my clients were realizing in working with me, and i realized that i needed to reevaluate my pricing. i was really underpriced relative to the value i was delivering. it's hard for me to admit to you, because i'm a pricing consultant. it's what i do. i help companies price for value. but nonetheless, it's what i saw, and so i sat down to evaluate my pricing, evaluate my value, and i did that by asking key value questions. what are my clients' needs and how do i meet them? what is my unique skill set that makes me better qualified to serve my clients? what do i do that no one else does? what problems do i solve for clients? what value do i add? i answered these questions and defined the value that my clients get from working with me, calculated their return on investment, and what i saw was that i needed to double my price, double it. now, i confess to you, this terrified me. i'm supposed to be the expert in this, but i'm not cured. i knew the value was there. i was convinced the value was there, and i was still scared out of my wits. what if nobody would pay me that? what if clients said, "that's ridiculous. you're ridiculous."was i really worth that? not my work, mind you, but me. was i worth that? i'm the mother of two beautiful little girls who depend upon me. i'm a single mom. what if my business fails? what if i fail?but i know how to take my own medicine, the medicine that i prescribe to my clients. i had done the homework. i knew the value was there. so when prospects came, i prepared the proposals with the new higher pricing and sent them out and communicated the value. how's the story end? clients continued to hire me and refer me and recommend me, and i'm still here. and i share this story because doubts and fears are natural and normal. but they don't define our value, and they shouldn't limit our earning potential.i'd like to share another story, about a woman who learned to communicate her value and found her own voice. she runs a successful web development company and employs several people. when she first started her firm and for several years thereafter, she would say, "i have a little web design company." she'd actually use those words with clients. "i have a little web design company." in this and in many other small ways, she was diminishing her company in the eyes of prospects and clients, and diminishing herself. it was really impacting her ability to earn what she was worth. i believe her language and her style communicated that she didn't believe she had much value to offer. in her own words, she was practically giving her services away. and so she began her journey to take responsibility for communicating value to clients and changing her message.one thing i shared with her is that it's so important to find your own voice, a voice that's authentic and true to you. don't try to channel your sister-in-law just because she's a great salesperson or your neighbor who tells a great joke if that's not who you are. give up this notion that it's tooting your own horn. make it about the other party. focus on serving and adding value, and it won't feel like bragging. what do you love about what you do? what excites you about the work that you do? if you connect with that, communicating your value will come naturally.so she embraced her natural style, found her voice and changed her message. for one thing, she stopped calling herself a little web design company. she really found a lot of strength and power in communicating her message. she's now charging three times as much for web design, and her business is growing. she told me about a recent meeting with a gruff and sometimes difficult client who had called a meeting questioning progress on search engine optimization. she said in the old days, that would have been a really intimidating meeting for her, but her mindset was different. she said, she prepared the information, sat down with the client, said this isn't about me, it's not personal, it's about the client. she took them through the data, through the numbers, laid out the trends and the progress in her own voice and in her own way, but very directly said, "here's what we've done for you." the client sat up and took notice, and said, "ok, i got it." and she said in describing that meeting, "i didn't feel scared or panicky or small, which is how i used to feel. instead i feel like, 'ok, i got this. i know what i'm doing. i'm confident.'"being properly valued is so important. you can hear in this story that the implications range far beyond just finances into the realm of self-respect and self-confidence. today i've told two stories, one about defining our value and the other about communicating our value, and these are the two elements to realizing our full earning potential. that's the equation. and if you're sitting in the audience today and you're not being paid what you're worth, i'd like to welcome you into this equation. just imagine what life could be like, how much more we could do, how much more we could give back, how much more we could plan for the future, how validated and respected we would feel if we could earn our full potential, realize our full value.no one will ever pay you what you're worth. they'll only ever pay you what they think you're worth, and you control their thinking.thank you. <title = "Political common ground in a polarized United States">
<tags = "['United States', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'democracy', 'future', 'government', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'immigration', 'inequality', 'infrastructure', 'journalism', 'news', 'policy', 'politics', 'security', 'social change', 'social media', 'women', 'writing']">
<occupation = "TV journalist, women's empowerment advocate">
chris anderson: welcome to this next edition of ted dialogues. we're trying to do some bridging here today. you know, the american dream has inspired millions of people around the world for many years. today, i think, you can say that america is divided, perhaps more than ever, and the divisions seem to be getting worse. it's actually really hard for people on different sides to even have a conversation. people almost feel... disgusted with each other. some families can't even speak to each other right now. our purpose in this dialogue today is to try to do something about that, to try to have a different kind of conversation, to do some listening, some thinking, some understanding. and i have two people with us to help us do that.they're not going to come at this hammer and tong against each other. this is not like cable news. this is two people who have both spent a lot of their working life in the political center or right of the center. they've immersed themselves in conservative worldviews, if you like. they know that space very well. and we're going to explore together how to think about what is happening right now, and whether we can find new ways to bridge and just to have wiser, more connected conversations.with me, first of all, gretchen carlson, who has spent a decade working at fox news, hosting "fox and friends" and then "the real story," before taking a courageous stance in filing sexual harassment claims against roger ailes, which eventually led to his departure from fox news. david brooks, who has earned the wrath of many of [the new york times's] left-leaning readers because of his conservative views, and more recently, perhaps, some of the right-leaning readers because of his criticism of some aspects of trump. yet, his columns are usually the top one, two or three most-read content of the day because they're brilliant, because they bring psychology and social science to providing understanding for what's going on. so without further ado, a huge welcome to gretchen and david. come and join me. so, gretchen. sixty-three million americans voted for donald trump. why did they do this?gretchen carlson: there are a lot of reasons, in my mind, why it happened. i mean, i think it was a movement of sorts, but it started long ago. it didn't just happen overnight. "anger" would be the first word that i would think of — anger with nothing being done in washington, anger about not being heard. i think there was a huge swath of the population that feels like washington never listens to them, you know, a good part of the middle of america, not just the coasts, and he was somebody they felt was listening to their concerns. so i think those two issues would be the main reason. i have to throw in there also celebrity. i think that had a huge impact on donald trump becoming president.ca: was the anger justified?david brooks: yeah, i think so. in 2015 and early 2016, i wrote about 30 columns with the following theme: don't worry, donald trump will never be the republican nominee. and having done that and gotten that so wrong, i decided to spend the ensuing year just out in trumpworld, and i found a lot of economic dislocation. i ran into a woman in west virginia who was going to a funeral for her mom. she said, "the nice thing about being catholic is we don't have to speak, and that's good, because we're not word people." that phrase rung in my head: word people. a lot of us in the ted community are word people, but if you're not, the economy has not been angled toward you, and so 11 million men, for example, are out of the labor force because those jobs are done away. a lot of social injury. you used to be able to say, "i'm not the richest person in the world, i'm not the most famous, but my neighbors can count on me and i get some dignity out of that." and because of celebritification or whatever, if you're not rich or famous, you feel invisible. and a lot of moral injury, sense of feeling betrayed, and frankly, in this country, we almost have one success story, which is you go to college, get a white-collar job, and you're a success, and if you don't fit in that formula, you feel like you're not respected. and so that accumulation of things — and when i talked to trump voters and still do, i found most of them completely realistic about his failings, but they said, this is my shot.gc: and yet i predicted that he would be the nominee, because i've known him for 27 years. he's a master marketer, and one of the things he did extremely well that president obama also did extremely well, was simplifying the message, simplifying down to phrases and to a populist message. even if he can't achieve it, it sounded good. and many people latched on to that simplicity again. it's something they could grasp onto: "i get that. i want that. that sounds fantastic." and i remember when he used to come on my show originally, before "the apprentice" was even "the apprentice," and he'd say it was the number one show on tv. i'd say back to him, "no, it's not." and he would say, "yes it is, gretchen." and i would say, "no it's not." but people at home would see that, and they'd be like, "wow, i should be watching the number one show on tv." and — lo and behold — it became the number one show on tv. so he had this, i've seen this ability in him to be the master marketer.ca: it's puzzling to a lot of people on the left that so many women voted for him, despite some of his comments.gc: i wrote a column about this for time motto, saying that i really believe that lot of people put on blinders, and maybe for the first time, some people decided that policies they believed in and being heard and not being invisible anymore was more important to them than the way in which he had acted or acts as a human. and so human dignity — whether it would be the dust-up about the disabled reporter, or what happened in that audiotape with billy bush and the way in which he spoke about women — they put that aside and pretended as if they hadn't seen that or heard that, because to them, policies were more important.ca: right, so just because someone voted for trump, it's not blind adherence to everything that he's said or stood for.gc: no. i heard a lot of people that would say to me, "wow, i just wish he would shut up before the election. if he would just stay quiet, he'd get elected."ca: and so, maybe for people on the left there's a trap there, to sort of despise or just be baffled by the support, assuming that it's for some of the unattractive features. actually, maybe they're supporting him despite those, because they see something exciting. they see a man of action. they see the choking hold of government being thrown off in some way and they're excited by that.gc: but don't forget we saw that on the left as well — bernie sanders. so this is one of the commonalities that i think we can talk about today, "the year of the outsider," david — right? and even though bernie sanders has been in congress for a long time, he was deemed an outsider this time. and so there was anger on the left as well, and so many people were in favor of bernie sanders. so i see it as a commonality. people who like trump, people who like bernie sanders, they were liking different policies, but the underpinning was anger.ca: david, there's often this narrative, then, that the sole explanation for trump's victory and his rise is his tapping into anger in a very visceral way. but you've written a bit about that it's actually more than that, that there's a worldview that's being worked on here. could you talk about that?db: i would say he understood what, frankly, i didn't, which is what debate we were having. and so i'd grown up starting with reagan, and it was the big government versus small government debate. it was barry goldwater versus george mcgovern, and that was the debate we had been having for a generation. it was: democrats wanted to use government to enhance equality, republicans wanted to limit government to enhance freedom. that was the debate. he understood what i think the two major parties did not, which was that's not the debate anymore. the debate is now open versus closed. on one side are those who have the tailwinds of globalization and the meritocracy blowing at their back, and they tend to favor open trade, open borders, open social mores, because there are so many opportunities. on the other side are those who feel the headwinds of globalization and the meritocracy just blasting in their faces, and they favor closed trade, closed borders, closed social mores, because they just want some security. and so he was right on that fundamental issue, and people were willing to overlook a lot to get there. and so he felt that sense of security.we're speaking the morning after trump's joint session speech. there are three traditional groups in the republican party. there are the foreign policies hawks who believe in america as global policeman. trump totally repudiated that view. second, there was the social conservatives who believed in religious liberty, pro-life, prayer in schools. he totally ignored that. there was not a single mention of a single social conservative issue. and then there were the fiscal hawks, the people who wanted to cut down on the national debt, tea party, cut the size of government. he's expanding the size of government! here's a man who has single-handedly revolutionized a major american party because he understood where the debate was headed before other people. and then guys like steve bannon come in and give him substance to his impulses.ca: and so take that a bit further, and maybe expand a bit more on your insights into steve bannon's worldview. because he's sometimes tarred in very simple terms as this dangerous, racist, xenophobic, anger-sparking person. there's more to the story; that is perhaps an unfair simplification.db: i think that part is true, but there's another part that's probably true, too. he's part of a global movement. it's like being around marxists in 1917. there's him here, there's the ukip party, there's the national front in france, there's putin, there's a turkish version, a philippine version. so we have to recognize that this is a global intellectual movement. and it believes that wisdom and virtue is not held in individual conversation and civility the way a lot of us in the enlightenment side of the world do. it's held in — the german word is the "volk" — in the people, in the common, instinctive wisdom of the plain people. and the essential virtue of that people is always being threatened by outsiders. and he's got a strategy for how to get there. he's got a series of policies to bring the people up and repudiate the outsiders, whether those outsiders are islam, mexicans, the media, the coastal elites... and there's a whole worldview there; it's a very coherent worldview. i sort of have more respect for him. i loathe what he stands for and i think he's wrong on the substance, but it's interesting to see someone with a set of ideas find a vehicle, donald trump, and then try to take control of the white house in order to advance his viewpoint.ca: so it's almost become, like, that the core question of our time now is: can you be patriotic but also have a global mindset? are these two things implacably opposed to each other? i mean, a lot of conservatives and, to the extent that it's a different category, a lot of trump supporters, are infuriated by the coastal elites and the globalists because they see them as, sort of, not cheering for america, not embracing fully american values. i mean, have you seen that in your conversations with people, in your understanding of their mindset?gc: i do think that there's a huge difference between — i hate to put people in categories, but, middle america versus people who live on the coasts. it's an entirely different existence. and i grew up in minnesota, so i have an understanding of middle america, and i've never forgotten it. and maybe that's why i have an understanding of what happened here, because those people often feel like nobody's listening to them, and that we're only concentrating on california and new york. and so i think that was a huge reason why trump was elected. i mean, these people felt like they were being heard. whether or not patriotism falls into that, i'm not sure about that. i do know one thing: a lot of things trump talked about last night are not conservative things. had hillary clinton gotten up and given that speech, not one republican would have stood up to applaud. i mean, he's talking about spending a trillion dollars on infrastructure. that is not a conservative viewpoint. he talked about government-mandated maternity leave. a lot of women may love that; it's not a conservative viewpoint. so it's fascinating that people who loved what his message was during the campaign, i'm not sure — how do you think they'll react to that?db: i should say i grew up in lower manhattan, in the triangle between abc carpets, the strand bookstore and the odeon restaurant. gc: come to minnesota sometime! ca: you are a card-carrying member of the coastal elite, my man. but what did you make of the speech last night? it seemed to be a move to a more moderate position, on the face of it.db: yeah, i thought it was his best speech, and it took away the freakishness of him. i do think he's a moral freak, and i think he'll be undone by that fact, the fact that he just doesn't know anything about anything and is uncurious about it. but if you take away these minor flaws, i think we got to see him at his best, and it was revealing for me to see him at his best, because to me, it exposed a central contradiction that he's got to confront, that a lot of what he's doing is offering security. so, "i'm ordering closed borders, i'm going to secure the world for you, for my people." but then if you actually look at a lot of his economic policies, like health care reform, which is about private health care accounts, that's not security, that's risk. educational vouchers: that's risk. deregulation: that's risk. there's really a contradiction between the security of the mindset and a lot of the policies, which are very risk-oriented. and what i would say, especially having spent this year, the people in rural minnesota, in new mexico — they've got enough risk in their lives. and so they're going to say, "no thank you." and i think his health care repeal will fail for that reason.ca: but despite the criticisms you just made of him, it does at least seem that he's listening to a surprisingly wide range of voices; it's not like everyone is coming from the same place. and maybe that leads to a certain amount of chaos and confusion, but —gc: i actually don't think he's listening to a wide range of voices. i think he's listening to very few people. that's just my impression of it. i believe that some of the things he said last night had ivanka all over them. so i believe he was listening to her before that speech. and he was teleprompter trump last night, as opposed to twitter trump. and that's why, before we came out here, i said, "we better check twitter to see if anything's changed." and also i think you have to keep in mind that because he's such a unique character, what was the bar that we were expecting last night? was it here or here or here? and so he comes out and gives a looking political speech, and everyone goes, "wow! he can do it." it just depends on which direction he goes.db: yeah, and we're trying to build bridges here, and especially for an audience that may have contempt for trump, it's important to say, no, this is a real thing. but as i try my best to go an hour showing respect for him, my thyroid is surging, because i think the oddities of his character really are condemnatory and are going to doom him.ca: your reputation is as a conservative. people would you describe you as right of center, and yet here you are with this visceral reaction against him and some of what he stands for. i mean, i'm — how do you have a conversation? the people who support him, on evidence so far, are probably pretty excited. he's certainly shown real engagement in a lot of what he promised to do, and there is a strong desire to change the system radically. people hate what government has become and how it's left them out.gc: i totally agree with that, but i think that when he was proposing a huge government program last night that we used to call the bad s-word, "stimulus," i find it completely ironic. to spend a trillion dollars on something — that is not a conservative viewpoint. then again, i don't really believe he's a republican.db: and i would say, as someone who identifies as conservative: first of all, to be conservative is to believe in the limitations of politics. samuel johnson said, "of all the things that human hearts endure, how few are those that kings can cause and cure." politics is a limited realm; what matters most is the moral nature of the society. and so i have to think character comes first, and a man who doesn't pass the character threshold cannot be a good president. second, i'm the kind of conservative who — i harken back to alexander hamilton, who was a latino hip-hop star from the heights — but his definition of america was very future-oriented. he was a poor boy from the islands who had this rapid and amazing rise to success, and he wanted government to give poor boys and girls like him a chance to succeed, using limited but energetic government to create social mobility. for him and for lincoln and for teddy roosevelt, the idea of america was the idea of the future. we may have division and racism and slavery in our past, but we have a common future. the definition of america that steve bannon stands for is backwards-looking. it's nostalgic; it's for the past. and that is not traditionally the american identity. that's traditionally, frankly, the russian identity. that's how they define virtue. and so i think it is a fundamental and foundational betrayal of what conservatism used to stand for.ca: well, i'd like actually like to hear from you, and if we see some comments coming in from some of you, we'll — oh, well here's one right now. jeffrey alan carnegie: i've tried to convince progressive friends that they need to understand what motivates trump supporters, yet many of them have given up trying to understand in the face of what they perceive as lies, selfishness and hatred. how would you reach out to such people, the tea party of the left, to try to bridge this divide?gc: i actually think there are commonalities in anger, as i expressed earlier. so i think you can come to the table, both being passionate about something. so at least you care. and i would like to believe — the c-word has also become a horrible word — "compromise," right? so you have the far left and the far right, and compromise — forget it. those groups don't want to even think about it. but you have a huge swath of voters, myself included, who are registered independents, like 40 percent of us, right? so there is a huge faction of america that wants to see change and wants to see people come together. it's just that we have to figure out how to do that.ca: so let's talk about that for a minute, because we're having these ted dialogues, we're trying to bridge. there's a lot of people out there, right now, perhaps especially on the left, who think this is a terrible idea, that actually, the only moral response to the great tyranny that may be about to emerge in america is to resist it at every stage, is to fight it tooth and nail, it's a mistake to try and do this. just fight! is there a case for that?db: it depends what "fight" means. if it means literal fighting, then no. if it means marching, well maybe marching to raise consciousness, that seems fine. but if you want change in this country, we do it through parties and politics. we organize parties, and those parties are big, diverse, messy coalitions, and we engage in politics, and politics is always morally unsatisfying because it's always a bunch of compromises. but politics is essentially a competition between partial truths. the trump people have a piece of the truth in america. i think trump himself is the wrong answer to the right question, but they have some truth, and it's truth found in the epidemic of opiates around the country, it's truth found in the spread of loneliness, it's the truth found in people whose lives are inverted. they peaked professionally at age 30, and it's all been downhill since. and so, understanding that doesn't take fighting, it takes conversation and then asking, "what are we going to replace trump with?"gc: but you saw fighting last night, even at the speech, because you saw the democratic women who came and wore white to honor the suffragette movement. i remember back during the campaign where some trump supporters wanted to actually get rid of the amendment that allowed us to vote as women. it was like, what? so i don't know if that's the right way to fight. it was interesting, because i was looking in the audience, trying to see democratic women who didn't wear white. so there's a lot going on there, and there's a lot of ways to fight that are not necessarily doing that.ca: i mean, one of the key questions, to me, is: the people who voted for trump but, if you like, are more in the center, like they're possibly amenable to persuasion — are they more likely to be persuaded by seeing a passionate uprising of people saying, "no, no, no, you can't!" or will that actually piss them off and push them away?db: how are any of us persuaded? am i going to persuade you by saying, "well, you're kind of a bigot, you're supporting bigotry, you're supporting sexism. you're a primitive, fascistic rise from some authoritarian past"? that's probably not going to be too persuasive to you. and so the way any of us are persuaded is by: a) some basic show of respect for the point of view, and saying, "i think this guy is not going to get you where you need to go." and there are two phrases you've heard over and over again, wherever you go in the country. one, the phrase "flyover country." and that's been heard for years, but i would say this year, i heard it almost on an hourly basis, a sense of feeling invisible. and then the sense a sense of the phrase "political correctness." just that rebellion: "they're not even letting us say what we think." and i teach at yale. the narrowing of debate is real.ca: so you would say this is a trap that liberals have fallen into by celebrating causes they really believe in, often expressed through the language of "political correctness." they have done damage. they have pushed people away.db: i would say a lot of the argument, though, with "descent to fascism," "authoritarianism" — that just feels over-the-top to people. and listen, i've written eight million anti-trump columns, but it is a problem, especially for the coastal media, that every time he does something slightly wrong, we go to 11, and we're at 11 every day. and it just strains credibility at some point.ca: crying wolf a little too loud and a little too early. but there may be a time when we really do have to cry wolf.gc: but see — one of the most important things to me is how the conservative media handles trump. will they call him out when things are not true, or will they just go along with it? to me, that is what is essential in this entire discussion, because when you have followers of somebody who don't really care if he tells the truth or not, that can be very dangerous. so to me, it's: how is the conservative media going to respond to it? i mean, you've been calling them out. but how will other forms of conservative media deal with that as we move forward?db: it's all shifted, though. the conservative media used to be fox or charles krauthammer or george will. they're no longer the conservative media. now there's another whole set of institutions further right, which is breitbart and infowars, alex jones, laura ingraham, and so they're the ones who are now his base, not even so much fox.ca: my last question for the time being is just on this question of the truth. i mean, it's one of the scariest things to people right now, that there is no agreement, nationally, on what is true. i've never seen anything like it, where facts are so massively disputed. your whole newspaper, sir, is delivering fake news every day.db: and failing. ca: and failing. my commiserations. but is there any path whereby we can start to get some kind of consensus, to believe the same things? can online communities play a role here? how do we fix this?gc: see, i understand how that happened. that's another groundswell kind of emotion that was going on in the middle of america and not being heard, in thinking that the mainstream media was biased. there's a difference, though, between being biased and being fake. to me, that is a very important distinction in this conversation. so let's just say that there was some bias in the mainstream media. ok. so there are ways to try and mend that. but what trump's doing is nuclearizing that and saying, "look, we're just going to call all of that fake." that's where it gets dangerous.ca: do you think enough of his supporters have a greater loyalty to the truth than to any ... like, the principle of not supporting something that is demonstrably not true actually matters, so there will be a correction at some point?db: i think the truth eventually comes out. so for example, donald trump has based a lot of his economic policy on this supposition that americans have lost manufacturing jobs because they've been stolen by the chinese. that is maybe 13 percent of the jobs that left. the truth is that 87 percent of the jobs were replaced by technology. that is just the truth. and so as a result, when he says, "i'm going to close tpp and all the jobs will come roaring back," they will not come roaring back. so that is an actual fact, in my belief. and — gc: but i'm saying what his supporters think is the truth, no matter how many times you might say that, they still believe him.db: but eventually either jobs will come back or they will not come back, and at that point, either something will work or it doesn't work, and it doesn't work or not work because of great marketing, it works because it actually addresses a real problem and so i happen to think the truth will out.ca: if you've got a question, please raise your hand here.yael eisenstat: i'll speak into the box. my name's yael eisenstat. i hear a lot of this talk about how we all need to start talking to each other more and understanding each other more, and i've even written about this, published on this subject as well, but now today i keep hearing liberals — yes, i live in new york, i can be considered a liberal — we sit here and self-analyze: what did we do to not understand the rust belt? or: what can we do to understand middle america better? and what i'd like to know: have you seen any attempts or conversations from middle america of what can i do to understand the so-called coastal elites better? because i'm just offended as being put in a box as a coastal elite as someone in middle america is as being considered a flyover state and not listened to.ca: there you go, i can hear facebook cheering as you — db: i would say — and this is someone who has been conservative all my adult life — when you grow up conservative, you learn to speak both languages. because if i'm going to listen to music, i'm not going to listen to ted nugent. so a lot of my favorite rock bands are all on the left. if i'm going to go to a school, i'm going probably to school where the culture is liberal. if i'm going to watch a sitcom or a late-night comedy show, it's going to be liberal. if i'm going to read a good newspaper, it'll be the new york times. as a result, you learn to speak both languages. and that actually, at least for a number of years, when i started at national review with william f. buckley, it made us sharper, because we were used to arguing against people every day. the problem now that's happened is you have ghettoization on the right and you can live entirely in rightworld, so as a result, the quality of argument on the right has diminished, because you're not in the other side all the time. but i do think if you're living in minnesota or iowa or arizona, the coastal elites make themselves aware to you, so you know that language as well, but it's not the reverse.ca: but what does middle america not get about coastal elites? so the critique is, you are not dealing with the real problems. there's a feeling of a snobbishness, an elitism that is very off-putting. what are they missing? if you could plant one piece of truth from the mindset of someone in this room, for example, what would you say to them?db: just how insanely wonderful we are. no, i reject the category. the problem with populism is the same problem with elitism. it's just a prejudice on the basis of probably an over-generalized social class distinction which is too simplistic to apply in reality. those of us in new york know there are some people in new york who are completely awesome, and some people who are pathetic, and if you live in iowa, some people are awesome and some people are pathetic. it's not a question of what degree you have or where you happen to live in the country. the distinction is just a crude simplification to arouse political power.gc: but i would encourage people to watch a television news show or read a column that they normally wouldn't. so if you are a trump supporter, watch the other side for a day, because you need to come out of the bubble if you're ever going to have a conversation. and both sides — so if you're a liberal, then watch something that's very conservative. read a column that is not something you would normally read, because then you gain perspective of what the other side is thinking, and to me, that's a start of coming together. i worry about the same thing you worry about, these bubbles. i think if you only watch certain entities, you have no idea what the rest of the world is talking about.db: i think not only watching, being part of an organization that meets at least once a month that puts you in direct contact with people completely unlike yourself is something we all have a responsibility for. i may get this a little wrong, but i think of the top-selling automotive models in this country, i think the top three or four are all pickup trucks. so ask yourself: how many people do i know who own a pickup truck? and it could be very few or zero for a lot of people. and that's sort of a warning sign kind of a problem. where can i join a club where i'll have a lot in common with a person who drives a pickup truck because we have a common interest in whatever?ca: and so the internet is definitely contributing to this. a question here from chris ajemian: "how do you feel structure of communications, especially the prevalence of social media and individualized content, can be used to bring together a political divide, instead of just filing communities into echo chambers?" i mean, it looks like facebook and google, since the election, are working hard on this question. they're trying to change the algorithms so that they don't amplify fake news to the extent that it happened last time round. do you see any other promising signs of ...?gc: ... or amplify one side of the equation.ca: exactly.gc: i think that was the constant argument from the right, that social media and the internet in general was putting articles towards the top that were not their worldview. i think, again, that fed into the anger. it fed into the anger of: "you're pushing something that's not what i believe." but social media has obviously changed everything, and i think trump is the example of twitter changing absolutely everything. and from his point of view, he's reaching the american people without a filter, which he believes the media is.ca: question from the audience.destiny: hi. i'm destiny. i have a question regarding political correctness, and i'm curious: when did political correctness become synonymous with silencing, versus a way that we speak about other people to show them respect and preserve their dignity?gc: well, i think the conservative media really pounded this issue for the last 10 years. i think that they really, really spent a lot of time talking about political correctness, and how people should have the ability to say what they think. another reason why trump became so popular: because he says what he thinks. it also makes me think about the fact that i do believe there are a lot of people in america who agree with steve bannon, but they would never say it publicly, and so voting for trump gave them the opportunity to agree with it silently.db: on the issue of immigration, it's a legitimate point of view that we have too many immigrants in the country, that it's economically costly.ca: that we have too many —db: immigrants in the country, especially from britain. gc: i kind of like the british accent, ok?ca: i apologize. america, i am sorry. i'll go now.db: but it became sort of impermissible to say that, because it was a sign that somehow you must be a bigot of some sort. so the political correctness was not only cracking down on speech that we would all find completely offensive, it was cracking down on some speech that was legitimate, and then it was turning speech and thought into action and treating it as a crime, and people getting fired and people thrown out of schools, and there were speech codes written. now there are these diversity teams, where if you say something that somebody finds offensive, like, "smoking is really dangerous," you can say "you're insulting my group," and the team from the administration will come down into your dorm room and put thought police upon you. and so there has been a genuine narrowing of what is permissible to say. and some of it is legitimate. there are certain words that there should be some social sanction against, but some of it was used to enforce a political agenda.ca: so is that a project you would urge on liberals, if you like — progressives — to rethink the ground rules around political correctness and accept a little more uncomfortable language in certain circumstances? can you see that being solved to an extent that others won't be so offended?db: i mean, most american universities, especially elite universities, are overwhelmingly on the left, and there's just an ease of temptation to use your overwhelming cultural power to try to enforce some sort of thought that you think is right and correct thought. so, be a little more self-suspicious of, are we doing that? and second, my university, the university of chicago, sent out this letter saying, we will have no safe spaces. there will be no critique of micro-aggression. if you get your feelings hurt, well, welcome to the world of education. i do think that policy — which is being embraced by a lot of people on the left, by the way — is just a corrective to what's happened.ca: so here's a question from karen holloway: how do we foster an american culture that's forward-looking, like hamilton, that expects and deals with change, rather than wanting to have everything go back to some fictional past? that's an easy question, right?gc: well, i'm still a believer in the american dream, and i think what we can teach our children is the basics, which is that hard work and believing in yourself in america, you can achieve whatever you want. i was told that every single day. when i got in the real world, i was like, wow, that's maybe not always so true. but i still believe in that. maybe i'm being too optimistic. so i still look towards the future for that to continue.db: i think you're being too optimistic.gc: you do?db: the odds of an american young person exceeding their parents' salary — a generation ago, like 86 percent did it. now 51 percent do it. there's just been a problem in social mobility in the country.ca: you've written that this entire century has basically been a disaster, that the age of sunny growth is over and we're in deep trouble.db: yeah, i mean, we averaged, in real terms, population-adjusted, two or three percent growth for 50 years, and now we've had less than one percent growth. and so there's something seeping out. and so if i'm going to tell people that they should take risks, one of the things we're seeing is a rapid decline in mobility, the number of people who are moving across state lines, and that's especially true among millennials. it's young people that are moving less. so how do we give people the security from which they can take risk? and i'm a big believer in attachment theory of raising children, and attachment theory is based on the motto that all of life is a series of daring adventures from a secure base. have you parents given you a secure base? and as a society, we do not have a secure base, and we won't get to that "hamilton," risk-taking, energetic ethos until we can supply a secure base.ca: so i wonder whether there's ground here to create almost like a shared agenda, a bridging conversation, on the one hand recognizing that there is this really deep problem that the system, the economic system that we built, seems to be misfiring right now. second, that maybe, if you're right that it's not all about immigrants, it's probably more about technology, if you could win that argument, that de-emphasizes what seems to me the single most divisive territory between trump supporters and others, which is around the role of the other. it's very offensive to people on the left to have the other demonized to the extent that the other seems to be demonized. that feels deeply immoral, and maybe people on the left could agree, as you said, that immigration may have happened too fast, and there is a limit beyond which human societies struggle, but nonetheless this whole problem becomes de-emphasized if automation is the key issue, and then we try to work together on recognizing that it's real, recognizing that the problem probably wasn't properly addressed or seen or heard, and try to figure out how to rebuild communities using, well, using what? that seems to me to become the fertile conversation of the future: how do we rebuild communities in this modern age, with technology doing what it's doing, and reimagine this bright future?gc: that's why i go back to optimism. i'm not being ... it's not like i'm not looking at the facts, where we've come or where we've come from. but for gosh sakes, if we don't look at it from an optimistic point of view — i'm refusing to do that just yet. i'm not raising my 12- and 13-year-old to say, "look, the world is dim."ca; we're going to have one more question from the room here.questioner: hi. hello. sorry. you both mentioned the infrastructure plan and russia and some other things that wouldn't be traditional republican priorities. what do you think, or when, will republicans be motivated to take a stand against trumpism?gc: after last night, not for a while. he changed a lot last night, i believe.db: his popularity among republicans — he's got 85 percent approval, which is higher than reagan had at this time, and that's because society has just gotten more polarized. so people follow the party much more than they used to. so if you're waiting for paul ryan and the republicans in congress to flake away, it's going to take a little while.gc: but also because they're all concerned about reelection, and trump has so much power with getting people either for you or against you, and so, they're vacillating every day, probably: "well, should i go against or should i not?" but last night, where he finally sounded presidential, i think most republicans are breathing a sigh of relief today.db: the half-life of that is short.gc: right — i was just going to say, until twitter happens again.ca: ok, i want to give each of you the chance to imagine you're speaking to — i don't know — the people online who are watching this, who may be trump supporters, who may be on the left, somewhere in the middle. how would you advise them to bridge or to relate to other people? can you share any final wisdom on this? or if you think that they shouldn't, tell them that as well.gc: i would just start by saying that i really think any change and coming together starts from the top, just like any other organization. and i would love if, somehow, trump supporters or people on the left could encourage their leaders to show that compassion from the top, because imagine the change that we could have if donald trump tweeted out today, to all of his supporters, "let's not be vile anymore to each other. let's have more understanding. as a leader, i'm going to be more inclusive to all of the people of america." to me, it starts at the top. is he going to do that? i have no idea. but i think that everything starts from the top, and the power that he has in encouraging his supporters to have an understanding of where people are coming from on the other side.ca: david. db: yeah, i guess i would say i don't think we can teach each other to be civil, and give us sermons on civility. that's not going to do it. it's substance and how we act, and the nice thing about donald trump is he smashed our categories. all the categories that we thought we were thinking in, they're obsolete. they were great for the 20th century. they're not good for today. he's got an agenda which is about closing borders and closing trade. i just don't think it's going to work. i think if we want to rebuild communities, recreate jobs, we need a different set of agenda that smashes through all our current divisions and our current categories. for me, that agenda is reaganism on macroeconomic policy, sweden on welfare policy and cuts across right and left. i think we have to have a dynamic economy that creates growth. that's the reagan on economic policy. but people have to have that secure base. there have to be nurse-family partnerships; there has to be universal preschool; there have to be charter schools; there have to be college programs with wraparound programs for parents and communities. we need to help heal the crisis of social solidarity in this country and help heal families, and government just has to get a lot more involved in the way liberals like to rebuild communities. at the other hand, we have to have an economy that's free and open the way conservatives used to like. and so getting the substance right is how you smash through the partisan identities, because the substance is what ultimately shapes our polarization.ca: david and gretchen, thank you so much for an absolutely fascinating conversation. thank you. that was really, really interesting. hey, let's keep the conversation going. we're continuing to try and figure out whether we can add something here, so keep the conversation going on facebook. give us your thoughts from whatever part of the political spectrum you're on, and actually, wherever in the world you are. this is not just about america. it's about the world, too. but we're not going to end today without music, because if we put music in every political conversation, the world would be completely different, frankly. it just would. up in harlem, this extraordinary woman, vy higginsen, who's actually right here — let's get a shot of her. she created this program that brings teens together, teaches them the joy and the impact of gospel music, and hundreds of teens have gone through this program. it's transformative for them. the music they made, as you already heard, is extraordinary, and i can't think of a better way of ending this ted dialogue than welcoming vy higginsen's gospel choir from harlem. thank you. (singing) choir: o beautiful for spacious skies for amber waves of grain for purple mountain majesties above the fruited plain america! america! america! america! god shed his grace on thee and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea from sea to shining sea <title = "How to take a picture of a black hole">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'astronomy', 'collaboration', 'exploration', 'innovation', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'science and art', 'space', 'technology', 'telescopes', 'universe', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Imaging scientist">
in the movie "interstellar," we get an up-close look at a supermassive black hole. set against a backdrop of bright gas, the black hole's massive gravitational pull bends light into a ring. however, this isn't a real photograph, but a computer graphic rendering — an artistic interpretation of what a black hole might look like.a hundred years ago, albert einstein first published his theory of general relativity. in the years since then, scientists have provided a lot of evidence in support of it. but one thing predicted from this theory, black holes, still have not been directly observed. although we have some idea as to what a black hole might look like, we've never actually taken a picture of one before. however, you might be surprised to know that that may soon change. we may be seeing our first picture of a black hole in the next couple years. getting this first picture will come down to an international team of scientists, an earth-sized telescope and an algorithm that puts together the final picture. although i won't be able to show you a real picture of a black hole today, i'd like to give you a brief glimpse into the effort involved in getting that first picture.my name is katie bouman, and i'm a phd student at mit. i do research in a computer science lab that works on making computers see through images and video. but although i'm not an astronomer, today i'd like to show you how i've been able to contribute to this exciting project.if you go out past the bright city lights tonight, you may just be lucky enough to see a stunning view of the milky way galaxy. and if you could zoom past millions of stars, 26,000 light-years toward the heart of the spiraling milky way, we'd eventually reach a cluster of stars right at the center. peering past all the galactic dust with infrared telescopes, astronomers have watched these stars for over 16 years. but it's what they don't see that is the most spectacular. these stars seem to orbit an invisible object. by tracking the paths of these stars, astronomers have concluded that the only thing small and heavy enough to cause this motion is a supermassive black hole — an object so dense that it sucks up anything that ventures too close — even light.but what happens if we were to zoom in even further? is it possible to see something that, by definition, is impossible to see? well, it turns out that if we were to zoom in at radio wavelengths, we'd expect to see a ring of light caused by the gravitational lensing of hot plasma zipping around the black hole. in other words, the black hole casts a shadow on this backdrop of bright material, carving out a sphere of darkness. this bright ring reveals the black hole's event horizon, where the gravitational pull becomes so great that not even light can escape. einstein's equations predict the size and shape of this ring, so taking a picture of it wouldn't only be really cool, it would also help to verify that these equations hold in the extreme conditions around the black hole.however, this black hole is so far away from us, that from earth, this ring appears incredibly small — the same size to us as an orange on the surface of the moon. that makes taking a picture of it extremely difficult. why is that? well, it all comes down to a simple equation. due to a phenomenon called diffraction, there are fundamental limits to the smallest objects that we can possibly see. this governing equation says that in order to see smaller and smaller, we need to make our telescope bigger and bigger. but even with the most powerful optical telescopes here on earth, we can't even get close to the resolution necessary to image on the surface of the moon. in fact, here i show one of the highest resolution images ever taken of the moon from earth. it contains roughly 13,000 pixels, and yet each pixel would contain over 1.5 million oranges.so how big of a telescope do we need in order to see an orange on the surface of the moon and, by extension, our black hole? well, it turns out that by crunching the numbers, you can easily calculate that we would need a telescope the size of the entire earth. if we could build this earth-sized telescope, we could just start to make out that distinctive ring of light indicative of the black hole's event horizon. although this picture wouldn't contain all the detail we see in computer graphic renderings, it would allow us to safely get our first glimpse of the immediate environment around a black hole.however, as you can imagine, building a single-dish telescope the size of the earth is impossible. but in the famous words of mick jagger, "you can't always get what you want, but if you try sometimes, you just might find you get what you need." and by connecting telescopes from around the world, an international collaboration called the event horizon telescope is creating a computational telescope the size of the earth, capable of resolving structure on the scale of a black hole's event horizon. this network of telescopes is scheduled to take its very first picture of a black hole next year. each telescope in the worldwide network works together. linked through the precise timing of atomic clocks, teams of researchers at each of the sights freeze light by collecting thousands of terabytes of data. this data is then processed in a lab right here in massachusetts.so how does this even work? remember if we want to see the black hole in the center of our galaxy, we need to build this impossibly large earth-sized telescope? for just a second, let's pretend we could build a telescope the size of the earth. this would be a little bit like turning the earth into a giant spinning disco ball. each individual mirror would collect light that we could then combine together to make a picture. however, now let's say we remove most of those mirrors so only a few remained. we could still try to combine this information together, but now there are a lot of holes. these remaining mirrors represent the locations where we have telescopes. this is an incredibly small number of measurements to make a picture from. but although we only collect light at a few telescope locations, as the earth rotates, we get to see other new measurements. in other words, as the disco ball spins, those mirrors change locations and we get to observe different parts of the image. the imaging algorithms we develop fill in the missing gaps of the disco ball in order to reconstruct the underlying black hole image. if we had telescopes located everywhere on the globe — in other words, the entire disco ball — this would be trivial. however, we only see a few samples, and for that reason, there are an infinite number of possible images that are perfectly consistent with our telescope measurements. however, not all images are created equal. some of those images look more like what we think of as images than others. and so, my role in helping to take the first image of a black hole is to design algorithms that find the most reasonable image that also fits the telescope measurements.just as a forensic sketch artist uses limited descriptions to piece together a picture using their knowledge of face structure, the imaging algorithms i develop use our limited telescope data to guide us to a picture that also looks like stuff in our universe. using these algorithms, we're able to piece together pictures from this sparse, noisy data. so here i show a sample reconstruction done using simulated data, when we pretend to point our telescopes to the black hole in the center of our galaxy. although this is just a simulation, reconstruction such as this give us hope that we'll soon be able to reliably take the first image of a black hole and from it, determine the size of its ring. although i'd love to go on about all the details of this algorithm, luckily for you, i don't have the time.but i'd still like to give you a brief idea of how we define what our universe looks like, and how we use this to reconstruct and verify our results. since there are an infinite number of possible images that perfectly explain our telescope measurements, we have to choose between them in some way. we do this by ranking the images based upon how likely they are to be the black hole image, and then choosing the one that's most likely.so what do i mean by this exactly? let's say we were trying to make a model that told us how likely an image were to appear on facebook. we'd probably want the model to say it's pretty unlikely that someone would post this noise image on the left, and pretty likely that someone would post a selfie like this one on the right. the image in the middle is blurry, so even though it's more likely we'd see it on facebook compared to the noise image, it's probably less likely we'd see it compared to the selfie.but when it comes to images from the black hole, we're posed with a real conundrum: we've never seen a black hole before. in that case, what is a likely black hole image, and what should we assume about the structure of black holes? we could try to use images from simulations we've done, like the image of the black hole from "interstellar," but if we did this, it could cause some serious problems. what would happen if einstein's theories didn't hold? we'd still want to reconstruct an accurate picture of what was going on. if we bake einstein's equations too much into our algorithms, we'll just end up seeing what we expect to see. in other words, we want to leave the option open for there being a giant elephant at the center of our galaxy. different types of images have very distinct features. we can easily tell the difference between black hole simulation images and images we take every day here on earth. we need a way to tell our algorithms what images look like without imposing one type of image's features too much. one way we can try to get around this is by imposing the features of different kinds of images and seeing how the type of image we assume affects our reconstructions. if all images' types produce a very similar-looking image, then we can start to become more confident that the image assumptions we're making are not biasing this picture that much.this is a little bit like giving the same description to three different sketch artists from all around the world. if they all produce a very similar-looking face, then we can start to become confident that they're not imposing their own cultural biases on the drawings. one way we can try to impose different image features is by using pieces of existing images. so we take a large collection of images, and we break them down into their little image patches. we then can treat each image patch a little bit like pieces of a puzzle. and we use commonly seen puzzle pieces to piece together an image that also fits our telescope measurements.different types of images have very distinctive sets of puzzle pieces. so what happens when we take the same data but we use different sets of puzzle pieces to reconstruct the image? let's first start with black hole image simulation puzzle pieces. ok, this looks reasonable. this looks like what we expect a black hole to look like. but did we just get it because we just fed it little pieces of black hole simulation images? let's try another set of puzzle pieces from astronomical, non-black hole objects. ok, we get a similar-looking image. and then how about pieces from everyday images, like the images you take with your own personal camera? great, we see the same image. when we get the same image from all different sets of puzzle pieces, then we can start to become more confident that the image assumptions we're making aren't biasing the final image we get too much.another thing we can do is take the same set of puzzle pieces, such as the ones derived from everyday images, and use them to reconstruct many different kinds of source images. so in our simulations, we pretend a black hole looks like astronomical non-black hole objects, as well as everyday images like the elephant in the center of our galaxy. when the results of our algorithms on the bottom look very similar to the simulation's truth image on top, then we can start to become more confident in our algorithms. and i really want to emphasize here that all of these pictures were created by piecing together little pieces of everyday photographs, like you'd take with your own personal camera. so an image of a black hole we've never seen before may eventually be created by piecing together pictures we see all the time of people, buildings, trees, cats and dogs. imaging ideas like this will make it possible for us to take our very first pictures of a black hole, and hopefully, verify those famous theories on which scientists rely on a daily basis.but of course, getting imaging ideas like this working would never have been possible without the amazing team of researchers that i have the privilege to work with. it still amazes me that although i began this project with no background in astrophysics, what we have achieved through this unique collaboration could result in the very first images of a black hole. but big projects like the event horizon telescope are successful due to all the interdisciplinary expertise different people bring to the table. we're a melting pot of astronomers, physicists, mathematicians and engineers. this is what will make it soon possible to achieve something once thought impossible.i'd like to encourage all of you to go out and help push the boundaries of science, even if it may at first seem as mysterious to you as a black hole.thank you. <title = "The conversation we're not having about digital child abuse">
<tags = "['Internet', 'TED en Español', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'children', 'communication', 'computers', 'family', 'parenting', 'sexual violence', 'social change', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Information security specialist ">
[this talk contains graphic content. viewer discretion is advised.]this is nina rodríguez's facebook profile. this person had three different profiles and 890 kids between 8 and 13 years old among her friends list. these are excerpts of a chat with one of those kids. this is an exact copy of the chat. it's part of the case file. this kid started sending private photos until his family realized what was going on. the police report and subsequent investigation lead them to a house. this was the girl's bedroom. nina rodríguez was actually a 24-year-old man that used to do this with lots of kids.micaela ortega was 12 years old when she went to meet her new facebook friend, also 12. "rochi de river," was her name. she actually met jonathan luna, who was 26 years old. when they finally caught him, he confessed that he killed the girl because she refused to have sex with him. he had four facebook profiles and 1,700 women on his contact list; 90 percent of them were under 13 years old.these are two different cases of "grooming": an adult contacts a kid through the internet, and through manipulation or lying, leads that kid into sexual territory — from talking about sex to sharing private photos, recording the kid using a webcam or arranging an in-person meeting. this is grooming. this is happening, and it's on the rise. the question is: what are we going to do? because, in the meantime, kids are alone. they finish dinner, go to their rooms, close the door, get on their computer, their cell phones, and get into a bar, into a club.think for one second about what i've just said: they're in a place full of strangers in an uninhibited environment. the internet broke physical boundaries. when we're alone in our bedroom and we go online, we're not really alone.there are at least two reasons why we're not taking care of this, or at least not in the right way. first, we're sure that everything that happens online is "virtual." in fact, we call it "the virtual world." if you look it up in the dictionary, something virtual is something that seems to exist but is not real. and we use that word to talk about the internet: something not real. and that's the problem with grooming. it is real. degenerate, perverted adults use the internet to abuse boys and girls and take advantage of, among other things, the fact that the kids and their parents think that what happens online doesn't actually happen.several years ago, some colleagues and i founded an ngo called "argentina cibersegura," dedicated to raising awareness about online safety. in 2013, we attended meetings at the house of legislature to discuss a law about grooming. i remember that a lot of people thought that grooming was strictly a precursor to arranging an in-person meeting with a kid to have sex with them. but they didn't think about what happened to the kids who were exposed by talking about sex with an adult without knowing it, or who shared intimate photos thinking only another kid would see them, or even worse, who had exposed themselves using their web cam. nobody considered that rape. i'm sure lots of you find it odd to think one person can abuse another without physical contact. we're programmed to think that way. i know, because i used to think that way. i was just an it security guy until this happened to me.at the end of 2011, in a little town in buenos aires province, i heard about a case for the first time. after giving a talk, i met the parents of an 11-year-old girl who had been a victim of grooming. a man had manipulated her into masturbating in front of her web cam, and recorded it. and the video was on several websites. that day, her parents asked us, in tears, to tell them the magic formula for how to delete those videos from the internet. it broke my heart and changed me forever to be their last disappointment, telling them it was too late: once content is online, we've already lost control.since that day, i think about that girl waking up in the morning, having breakfast with her family, who had seen the video, and then walking to school, meeting people that had seen her naked, arriving to school, playing with her friends, who had also seen her. that was her life. exposed. of course, nobody raped her body. but hadn't her sexuality been abused?we clearly use different standards to measure physical and digital things. and we get angry at social networks because being angry with ourselves is more painful and more true. and this brings us to the second reason why we aren't paying proper attention to this issue. we're convinced that kids don't need our help, that they "know everything" about technology.when i was a kid, at one point, my parents started letting me walk to school alone. after years of taking me by the hand and walking me to school, one day they sat me down, gave me the house keys and said, "be very careful with these; don't give them to anyone, take the route we showed you, be at home at the time we said, cross at the corner, and look both ways before you cross, and no matter what, don't talk to strangers." i knew everything about walking, and yet, there was a responsible adult there taking care of me. knowing how to do something is one thing, knowing how to take care of yourself is another. imagine this situation: i'm 10 or 11 years old, i wake up in the morning, my parents toss me the keys and say, "seba, now you can walk to school alone." and when i come back late, they say, "no, you need to be home at the time we said." and two weeks later, when it comes up, they say, "you know what? you have to cross at the corner, and look both ways before crossing." and two years later, they say, "and also, don't talk to strangers." it sounds absurd, right?we have the same absurd behavior in relation to technology. we give kids total access and we see if one day, sooner or later, they learn how to take care of themselves. knowing how to do something is one thing, knowing how to take care of yourself is another.along those same lines, when we talk to parents, they often say they don't care about technology and social networks. i always rejoin that by asking if they care about their kids. as adults, being interested or not in technology is the same as being interested or not in our kids. the internet is part of their lives. technology forces us to rethink the relationship between adults and kids. education was always based on two main concepts: experience and knowledge. how do we teach our kids to be safe online when we don't have either?nowadays, we adults have to guide our children through what is often for us unfamiliar territory — territory much more inviting for them. it's impossible to find an answer without doing new things — things that make us uncomfortable, things we're not used to.a lot of you may think it's easy for me, because i'm relatively young. and it used to be that way. used to. until last year, when i felt the weight of my age on my shoulders the first time i opened snapchat. i didn't understand a thing! i found it unnecessary, useless, hard to understand; it looked like a camera! it didn't have menu options! it was the first time i felt the gap that sometimes exists between kids and adults. but it was also an opportunity to do the right thing, to leave my comfort zone, to force myself. i never thought i'd ever use snapchat, but then i asked my teenage cousin to show me how to use it. i also asked why she used it. what was fun about it? we had a really nice talk. she showed me her snapchat, she told me things, we got closer, we laughed. today, i use it. i don't know if i do it right, but the most important thing is that i know it and i understand it. the key was to overcome the initial shock and do something new. something new. today, we have the chance to create new conversations. what's the last app you downloaded? which social network do you use to contact your friends? what kind of information do you share? have you ever been approached by strangers? could we have these conversations between kids and adults? we have to force ourselves to do it. all of us. today, lots of kids are listening to us. sometimes when we go to schools to give our talks, or through social networks, kids ask or tell us things they haven't told their parents or their teachers. they tell us — they don't even know us. those kids need to know what the risks of being online are, how to take care of themselves, but also that, fundamentally, as with almost everything else, kids can learn this from any adult.online safety needs to be a conversation topic in every house and every classroom in the country. we did a survey this year that showed that 15 percent of schools said they knew of cases of grooming in their school. and this number is growing. technology changed every aspect of our life, including the risks we face and how we take care of ourselves.grooming shows us this in the most painful way: by involving our kids. are we going to do something to avoid this? the solution starts with something as easy as: talking about it.thank you. <title = "How racism makes us sick">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'identity', 'illness', 'inequality', 'medicine', 'public health', 'race', 'society']">
<occupation = "Public health sociologist">
an article in the yale alumni magazine told the story of clyde murphy, a black man who was a member of the class of 1970. clyde was a success story. after yale and a law degree from columbia, clyde spent the next 30 years as one of america's top civil rights lawyers. he was also a great husband and father. but despite his success, personally and professionally, clyde's story had a sad ending.in 2010, at the age of 62, clyde died from a blood clot in his lung. clyde's experience was not unique. many of his black classmates from yale also died young. in fact, the magazine article indicated that 41 years after graduation from yale, the black members of the class of 1970 had a death rate that was three times higher than that of the average class member. it's stunning.america has recently awakened to a steady drumbeat of unarmed black men being shot by the police. what is even a bigger story is that every seven minutes, a black person dies prematurely in the united states. that is over 200 black people die every single day who would not die if the health of blacks and whites were equal.for the last 25 years, i have been on a mission to understand why does race matter so profoundly for health. when i started my career, many believed that it was simply about racial differences in income and education. i discovered that while economic status matters for health, there is more to the story. so for example, if we look at life expectancy at age 25, at age 25 there's a five-year gap between blacks and whites. and the gap by education for both whites and blacks is even larger than the racial gap. at the same time, at every level of education, whites live longer than blacks. so whites who are high school dropouts live 3.4 years longer than their black counterparts, and the gap is even larger among college graduates. most surprising of all, whites who have graduated from high school live longer than blacks with a college degree or more education.so why does race matter so profoundly for health? what else is it beyond education and income that might matter?in the early 1990s, i was asked to review a new book on the health of black america. i was struck that almost every single one of its 25 chapters said that racism was a factor that was hurting the health of blacks. all of these researchers were stating that racism was a factor adversely impacting blacks, but they provided no evidence. for me, that was not good enough.a few months later, i was speaking at a conference in washington, dc, and i said that one of the priorities for research was to document the ways in which racism affected health. a white gentleman stood in the audience and said that while he agreed with me that racism was important, we could never measure racism. "we measure self-esteem," i said. "there's no reason why we can't measure racism if we put our minds to it."and so i put my mind to it and developed three scales. the first one captured major experiences of discrimination, like being unfairly fired or being unfairly stopped by the police. but discrimination also occurs in more minor and subtle experiences, and so my second scale, called the everyday discrimination scale, captures nine items that captures experiences like you're treated with less courtesy than others, you receive poorer service than others in restaurants or stores, or people act as if they're afraid of you. this scale captures ways in which the dignity and the respect of people who society does not value is chipped away on a daily basis.research has found that higher levels of discrimination are associated with an elevated risk of a broad range of diseases from blood pressure to abdominal obesity to breast cancer to heart disease and even premature mortality. strikingly, some of the effects are observed at a very young age. for example, a study of black teens found that those who reported higher levels of discrimination as teenagers had higher levels of stress hormones, of blood pressure and of weight at age 20. however, the stress of discrimination is only one aspect.discrimination and racism also matters in other profound ways for health. for example, there's discrimination in medical care. in 1999, the national academy of medicine asked me to serve on a committee that found, concluded based on the scientific evidence, that blacks and other minorities receive poorer quality care than whites. this was true for all kinds of medical treatment, from the most simple to the most technologically sophisticated. one explanation for this pattern was a phenomenon that's called "implicit bias" or "unconscious discrimination." research for decades by social psychologists indicates that if you hold a negative stereotype about a group in your subconscious mind and you meet someone from that group, you will discriminate against that person. you will treat them differently. it's an unconscious process. it's an automatic process. it is a subtle process, but it's normal and it occurs even among the most well-intentioned individuals.but the deeper that i delved into the health impact of racism, the more insidious the effects became. there is institutional discrimination, which refers to discrimination that exists in the processes of social institutions. residential segregation by race, which has led to blacks and whites living in very different neighborhood contexts, is a classic example of institutional racism. one of america's best-kept secrets is how residential segregation is the secret source that creates racial inequality in the united states. in america, where you live determines your access to opportunities in education, in employment, in housing and even in access to medical care. one study of the 171 largest cities in the united states concluded that there is not even one city where whites live under equal conditions to blacks, and that the worst urban contexts in which whites reside is considerably better than the average context of black communities. another study found that if you could eliminate statistically residential segregation, you would completely erase black-white differences in income, education and unemployment, and reduce black-white differences in single motherhood by two thirds, all of that driven by segregation. i have also learned how the negative stereotypes and images of blacks in our culture literally create and sustain both institutional and individual discrimination.a group of researchers have put together a database that contains the books, magazines and articles that an average college-educated american would read over their lifetime. it allows us to look within this database and see how americans have seen words paired together as they grow up in their society. so when the word "black" appears in american culture, what co-occurs with it? "poor," "violent," "religious," "lazy," "cheerful," "dangerous." when "white" occurs, the frequently co-occurring words are "wealthy," "progressive," "conventional," "stubborn," "successful," "educated." so when a police officer overreacts when he sees an unarmed black male and perceives him to be violent and dangerous, we are not necessarily dealing with an inherently bad cop. we may be simply viewing a normal american who is reflecting what he has been exposed to as a result of being raised in this society.from my own experience, i believe that your race does not have to be a determinant of your destiny. i migrated to the united states from the caribbean island of saint lucia in the late 1970s in pursuit of higher education, and in the last 40 years, i have done well. i have had a supportive family, i have worked hard, i have done well. but it took more for me to be successful. i received a minority fellowship from the university of michigan. yes. i am an affirmative action baby. without affirmative action, i would not be here.but in the last 40 years, black america has been less successful than i have. in 1978, black households in the united states earned 59 cents for every dollar of income whites earned. in 2015, black families still earn 59 cents for every dollar of income that white families receive, and the racial gaps in wealth are even more stunning. for every dollar of wealth that whites have, black families have six pennies and latinos have seven pennies.the fact is, racism is producing a truly rigged system that is systematically disadvantaging some racial groups in the united states. to paraphrase plato, there is nothing so unfair as the equal treatment of unequal people. and that's why i am committed to working to dismantle racism.i deeply appreciate the fact that i am standing on the shoulders of those who have sacrificed even their lives to open the doors that i have walked through. i want to ensure that those doors remain open and that everyone can walk through those doors. robert kennedy said, "each time a man" — or woman, i would add — "stands up for an ideal or acts to improve the lot of others or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and those ripples can build a current that can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance."i am optimistic today because all across america, i have seen ripples of hope. the boston medical center has added lawyers to the medical team so that physicians can improve the health of their patients because the lawyers are addressing the nonmedical needs their patients have. loma linda university has built a gateway college in nearby san bernardino so that in addition to delivering medical care, they can provide job skills and job training to a predominantly minority, low-income community members so that they will have the skills they need to get a decent job. in chapel hill, north carolina, the abecedarian project has figured out how to ensure that they have lowered the risks for heart disease for blacks in their mid-30s by providing high-quality day care from birth to age five. in after-school centers across the united states, wintley phipps and the us dream academy is breaking the cycle of incarceration by providing high-quality academic enrichment and mentoring to the children of prisoners and children who have fallen behind in school. in huntsville, alabama, oakwood university, a historically black institution, is showing how we can improve the health of black adults by including a health evaluation as a part of freshman orientation and giving those students the tools they need to make healthy choices and providing them annually a health transcript so they can monitor their progress. and in atlanta, georgia, purpose built communities has dismantled the negative effects of segregation by transforming a crime-ridden, drug-infested public housing project into an oasis of mixed-income housing, of academic performance, of great community wellness and of full employment. and finally, there is the devine solution. professor patricia devine of the university of wisconsin has shown us how we can attack our hidden biases head on and effectively reduce them. each one of us can be a ripple of hope.this work will not always be easy, but former supreme court justice thurgood marshall has told us, "we must dissent. we must dissent from the indifference. we must dissent from the apathy. we must dissent from the hatred and from the mistrust. we must dissent because america can do better, because america has no choice but to do better."thank you. <title = "How we can find ourselves in data">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'algorithm', 'art', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'data', 'design', 'humanity', 'media', 'personal growth', 'statistics', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Information designer">
this is what my last week looked like. what i did, who i was with, the main sensations i had for every waking hour ... if the feeling came as i thought of my dad who recently passed away, or if i could have just definitely avoided the worries and anxieties. and if you think i'm a little obsessive, you're probably right. but clearly, from this visualization, you can learn much more about me than from this other one, which are images you're probably more familiar with and which you possibly even have on your phone right now. bar charts for the steps you walked, pie charts for the quality of your sleep — the path of your morning runs.in my day job, i work with data. i run a data visualization design company, and we design and develop ways to make information accessible through visual representations. what my job has taught me over the years is that to really understand data and their true potential, sometimes we actually have to forget about them and see through them instead. because data are always just a tool we use to represent reality. they're always used as a placeholder for something else, but they are never the real thing.but let me step back for a moment to when i first understood this personally. in 1994, i was 13 years old. i was a teenager in italy. i was too young to be interested in politics, but i knew that a businessman, silvio berlusconi, was running for president for the moderate right. we lived in a very liberal town, and my father was a politician for the democratic party. and i remember that no one thought that berlusconi could get elected — that was totally not an option. but it happened. and i remember the feeling very vividly. it was a complete surprise, as my dad promised that in my town he knew nobody who voted for him.this was the first time when the data i had gave me a completely distorted image of reality. my data sample was actually pretty limited and skewed, so probably it was because of that, i thought, i lived in a bubble, and i didn't have enough chances to see outside of it.now, fast-forward to november 8, 2016 in the united states. the internet polls, statistical models, all the pundits agreeing on a possible outcome for the presidential election. it looked like we had enough information this time, and many more chances to see outside the closed circle we lived in — but we clearly didn't. the feeling felt very familiar. i had been there before. i think it's fair to say the data failed us this time — and pretty spectacularly. we believed in data, but what happened, even with the most respected newspaper, is that the obsession to reduce everything to two simple percentage numbers to make a powerful headline made us focus on these two digits and them alone. in an effort to simplify the message and draw a beautiful, inevitable red and blue map, we lost the point completely. we somehow forgot that there were stories — stories of human beings behind these numbers.in a different context, but to a very similar point, a peculiar challenge was presented to my team by this woman. she came to us with a lot of data, but ultimately she wanted to tell one of the most humane stories possible. she's samantha cristoforetti. she has been the first italian woman astronaut, and she contacted us before being launched on a six-month-long expedition to the international space station. she told us, "i'm going to space, and i want to do something meaningful with the data of my mission to reach out to people." a mission to the international space station comes with terabytes of data about anything you can possibly imagine — the orbits around earth, the speed and position of the iss and all of the other thousands of live streams from its sensors. we had all of the hard data we could think of — just like the pundits before the election — but what is the point of all these numbers? people are not interested in data for the sake of it, because numbers are never the point. they're always the means to an end. the story we needed to tell is that there is a human being in a teeny box flying in space above your head, and that you can actually see her with your naked eye on a clear night. so we decided to use data to create a connection between samantha and all of the people looking at her from below. we designed and developed what we called "friends in space," a web application that simply lets you say "hello" to samantha from where you are, and "hello" to all the people who are online at the same time from all over the world. and all of these "hellos" left visible marks on the map as samantha was flying by and as she was actually waving back every day at us using twitter from the iss.this made people see the mission's data from a very different perspective. it all suddenly became much more about our human nature and our curiosity, rather than technology. so data powered the experience, but stories of human beings were the drive. the very positive response of its thousands of users taught me a very important lesson — that working with data means designing ways to transform the abstract and the uncountable into something that can be seen, felt and directly reconnected to our lives and to our behaviors, something that is hard to achieve if we let the obsession for the numbers and the technology around them lead us in the process. but we can do even more to connect data to the stories they represent. we can remove technology completely.a few years ago, i met this other woman, stefanie posavec — a london-based designer who shares with me the passion and obsession about data. we didn't know each other, but we decided to run a very radical experiment, starting a communication using only data, no other language, and we opted for using no technology whatsoever to share our data. in fact, our only means of communication would be through the old-fashioned post office. for "dear data," every week for one year, we used our personal data to get to know each other — personal data around weekly shared mundane topics, from our feelings to the interactions with our partners, from the compliments we received to the sounds of our surroundings. personal information that we would then manually hand draw on a postcard-size sheet of paper that we would every week send from london to new york, where i live, and from new york to london, where she lives. the front of the postcard is the data drawing, and the back of the card contains the address of the other person, of course, and the legend for how to interpret our drawing. the very first week into the project, we actually chose a pretty cold and impersonal topic. how many times do we check the time in a week? so here is the front of my card, and you can see that every little symbol represents all of the times that i checked the time, positioned for days and different hours chronologically — nothing really complicated here. but then you see in the legend how i added anecdotal details about these moments. in fact, the different types of symbols indicate why i was checking the time — what was i doing? was i bored? was i hungry? was i late? did i check it on purpose or just casually glance at the clock? and this is the key part — representing the details of my days and my personality through my data collection. using data as a lens or a filter to discover and reveal, for example, my never-ending anxiety for being late, even though i'm absolutely always on time.stefanie and i spent one year collecting our data manually to force us to focus on the nuances that computers cannot gather — or at least not yet — using data also to explore our minds and the words we use, and not only our activities. like at week number three, where we tracked the "thank yous" we said and were received, and when i realized that i thank mostly people that i don't know. apparently i'm a compulsive thanker to waitresses and waiters, but i definitely don't thank enough the people who are close to me.over one year, the process of actively noticing and counting these types of actions became a ritual. it actually changed ourselves. we became much more in tune with ourselves, much more aware of our behaviors and our surroundings. over one year, stefanie and i connected at a very deep level through our shared data diary, but we could do this only because we put ourselves in these numbers, adding the contexts of our very personal stories to them. it was the only way to make them truly meaningful and representative of ourselves.i am not asking you to start drawing your personal data, or to find a pen pal across the ocean. but i'm asking you to consider data — all kind of data — as the beginning of the conversation and not the end. because data alone will never give us a solution. and this is why data failed us so badly — because we failed to include the right amount of context to represent reality — a nuanced, complicated and intricate reality. we kept looking at these two numbers, obsessing with them and pretending that our world could be reduced to a couple digits and a horse race, while the real stories, the ones that really mattered, were somewhere else.what we missed looking at these stories only through models and algorithms is what i call "data humanism." in the renaissance humanism, european intellectuals placed the human nature instead of god at the center of their view of the world. i believe something similar needs to happen with the universe of data. now data are apparently treated like a god — keeper of infallible truth for our present and our future.the experiences that i shared with you today taught me that to make data faithfully representative of our human nature and to make sure they will not mislead us anymore, we need to start designing ways to include empathy, imperfection and human qualities in how we collect, process, analyze and display them. i do see a place where, ultimately, instead of using data only to become more efficient, we will all use data to become more humane.thank you. <title = "3 ways to plan for the (very) long term">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'decision-making', 'future', 'goal-setting', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'intelligence', 'leadership', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Futurist">
so i've been "futuring," which is a term i made up — about three seconds ago. i've been futuring for about 20 years, and when i first started, i would sit down with people, and say, "hey, let's talk 10, 20 years out." and they'd say, "great." and i've been seeing that time horizon get shorter and shorter and shorter, so much so that i met with a ceo two months ago and i said — we started our initial conversation. he goes, "i love what you do. i want to talk about the next six months." we have a lot of problems that we are facing. these are civilizational-scale problems. the issue though is, we can't solve them using the mental models that we use right now to try and solve these problems. yes, a lot of great technical work is being done, but there is a problem that we need to solve for a priori, before, if we want to really move the needle on those big problems. "short-termism." right? there's no marches. there's no bracelets. there's no petitions that you can sign to be against short-termism. i tried to put one up, and no one signed. it was weird. but it prevents us from doing so much. short-termism, for many reasons, has pervaded every nook and cranny of our reality. i just want you to take a second and just think about an issue that you're thinking, working on. it could be personal, it could be at work or it could be move-the-needle world stuff, and think about how far out you tend to think about the solution set for that.because short-termism prevents the ceo from buying really expensive safety equipment. it'll hurt the bottom line. so we get the deepwater horizon. short-termism prevents teachers from spending quality one-on-one time with their students. so right now in america, a high school student drops out every 26 seconds. short-termism prevents congress — sorry if there's anyone in here from congress — or not really that sorry — from putting money into a real infrastructure bill. so what we get is the i-35w bridge collapse over the mississippi a few years ago, 13 killed. it wasn't always like this. we did the panama canal. we pretty much have eradicated global polio. we did the transcontinental railroad, the marshall plan. and it's not just big, physical infrastructure problems and issues. women's suffrage, the right to vote. but in our short-termist time, where everything seems to happen right now and we can only think out past the next tweet or timeline post, we get hyper-reactionary.so what do we do? we take people who are fleeing their war-torn country, and we go after them. we take low-level drug offenders, and we put them away for life. and then we build mcmansions without even thinking about how people are going to get between them and their job. it's a quick buck.now, the reality is, for a lot of these problems, there are some technical fixes, a lot of them. i call these technical fixes sandbag strategies. so you know there's a storm coming, the levee is broken, no one's put any money into it, you surround your home with sandbags. and guess what? it works. storm goes away, the water level goes down, you get rid of the sandbags, and you do this storm after storm after storm. and here's the insidious thing. a sandbag strategy can get you reelected. a sandbag strategy can help you make your quarterly numbers.now, if we want to move forward into a different future than the one we have right now, because i don't think we've hit — 2016 is not peak civilization. there's some more we can do. but my argument is that unless we shift our mental models and our mental maps on how we think about the short, it's not going to happen.so what i've developed is something called "longpath," and it's a practice. and longpath isn't a kind of one-and-done exercise. i'm sure everyone here at some point has done an off-site with a lot of post-it notes and whiteboards, and you do — no offense to the consultants in here who do that — and you do a long-term plan, and then two weeks later, everyone forgets about it. right? or a week later. if you're lucky, three months. it's a practice because it's not necessarily a thing that you do. it's a process where you have to revisit different ways of thinking for every major decision that you're working on. so i want to go through those three ways of thinking.so the first: transgenerational thinking. i love the philosophers: plato, socrates, habermas, heidegger. i was raised on them. but they all did one thing that didn't actually seem like a big deal until i really started kind of looking into this. and they all took, as a unit of measure for their entire reality of what it meant to be virtuous and good, the single lifespan, from birth to death. but here's a problem with these issues: they stack up on top of us, because the only way we know how to do something good in the world is if we do it between our birth and our death. that's what we're programmed to do. if you go to the self-help section in any bookstore, it's all about you. which is great, unless you're dealing with some of these major issues. and so with transgenerational thinking, which is really kind of transgenerational ethics, you're able to expand how you think about these problems, what is your role in helping to solve them.now, this isn't something that just has to be done at the security council chamber. it's something that you can do in a very kind of personal way. so every once in a while, if i'm lucky, my wife and i like to go out to dinner, and we have three children under the age of seven. so you can imagine it's a very peaceful, quiet meal. so we sit down and literally all i want to do is just eat and chill, and my kids have a completely and totally different idea of what we're going to be doing. and so my first idea is my sandbag strategy, right? it's to go into my pocket and take out the iphone and give them "frozen" or some other bestselling game thing. and then i stop and i have to kind of put on this transgenerational thinking cap. i don't do this in the restaurant, because it would be bizarre, but i have to — i did it once, and that's how i learned it was bizarre. and you have to kind of think, "ok, i can do this." but what is this teaching them? so what does it mean if i actually bring some paper or engage with them in conversation? it's hard. it's not easy, and i'm making this very personal. it's actually more traumatic than some of the big issues that i work on in the world — entertaining my kids at dinner. but what it does is it connects them here in the present with me, but it also — and this is the crux of transgenerational thinking ethics — it sets them up to how they're going to interact with their kids and their kids and their kids.second, futures thinking. when we think about the future, 10, 15 years out, give me a vision of what the future is. you don't have to give it to me, but think in your head. and what you're probably going to see is the dominant cultural lens that dominates our thinking about the future right now: technology. so when we think about the problems, we always put it through a technological lens, a tech-centric, a techno-utopia, and there's nothing wrong with that, but it's something that we have to really think deeply about if we're going to move on these major issues, because it wasn't always like this. right? the ancients had their way of thinking about what the future was. the church definitely had their idea of what the future could be, and you could actually pay your way into that future. right? and luckily for humanity, we got the scientific revolution. from there, we got the technology, but what has happened — and by the way, this is not a critique. i love technology. everything in my house talks back to me, from my children to my speakers to everything. but we've abdicated the future from the high priests in rome to the high priests of silicon valley. so when we think, well, how are we going to deal with climate or with poverty or homelessness, our first reaction is to think about it through a technology lens. and look, i'm not advocating that we go to this guy. i love joel, don't get me wrong, but i'm not saying we go to joel. what i'm saying is we have to rethink our base assumption about only looking at the future in one way, only looking at it through the dominant lens. because our problems are so big and so vast that we need to open ourselves up.so that's why i do everything in my power not to talk about the future. i talk about futures. it opens the conversation again. so when you're sitting and thinking about how do we move forward on this major issue — it could be at home, it could be at work, it could be again on the global stage — don't cut yourself off from thinking about something beyond technology as a fix because we're more concerned about technological evolution right now than we are about moral evolution. and unless we fix for that, we're not going to be able to get out of short-termism and get to where we want to be.the final, telos thinking. this comes from the greek root. ultimate aim and ultimate purpose. and it's really asking one question: to what end? when was the last time you asked yourself: to what end? and when you asked yourself that, how far out did you go? because long isn't long enough anymore. three, five years doesn't cut it. it's 30, 40, 50, 100 years.in homer's epic, "the odyssey," odysseus had the answer to his "what end." it was ithaca. it was this bold vision of what he wanted — to return to penelope. and i can tell you, because of the work that i'm doing, but also you know it intuitively — we have lost our ithaca. we have lost our "to what end," so we stay on this hamster wheel. and yes, we're trying to solve these problems, but what comes after we solve the problem? and unless you define what comes after, people aren't going to move. the businesses — this isn't just about business — but the businesses that do consistently, who break out of short-termism not surprisingly are family-run businesses. they're transgenerational. they're telos. they think about the futures. and this is an ad for patek philippe. they're 175 years old, and what's amazing is that they literally embody this kind of longpathian sense in their brand, because, by the way, you never actually own a patek philippe, and i definitely won't — unless somebody wants to just throw 25,000 dollars on the stage. you merely look after it for the next generation.so it's important that we remember, the future, we treat it like a noun. it's not. it's a verb. it requires action. it requires us to push into it. it's not this thing that washes over us. it's something that we actually have total control over. but in a short-term society, we end up feeling like we don't. we feel like we're trapped. we can push through that.now i'm getting more comfortable in the fact that at some point in the inevitable future, i will die. but because of these new ways of thinking and doing, both in the outside world and also with my family at home, and what i'm leaving my kids, i get more comfortable in that fact. and it's something that a lot of us are really uncomfortable with, but i'm telling you, think it through. apply this type of thinking and you can push yourself past what's inevitably very, very uncomfortable.and it all begins really with yourself asking this question: what is your longpath? but i ask you, when you ask yourself that now or tonight or behind a steering wheel or in the boardroom or the situation room: push past the longpath, quick, oh, what's my longpath the next three years or five years? try and push past your own life if you can because it makes you do things a little bit bigger than you thought were possible.yes, we have huge, huge problems out there. with this process, with this thinking, i think we can make a difference. i think you can make a difference, and i believe in you guys.thank you. <title = "In praise of conflict">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'capitalism', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'economics', 'environment', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'investment', 'leadership', 'policy', 'pollution', 'public health', 'social change', 'success']">
<occupation = "Bioethicist, lawyer">
twenty years ago, when i was a barrister and human rights lawyer in full-time legal practice in london, and the highest court in the land still convened, some would say by an accident of history, in this building here, i met a young man who had just quit his job in the british foreign office. when i asked him, "why did you leave," he told me this story.he had gone to his boss one morning and said, "let's do something about human rights abuses in china." and his boss had replied, "we can't do anything about human rights abuses in china because we have trade relations with china."so my friend went away with his tail between his legs, and six months later, he returned again to his boss, and he said this time, "let's do something about human rights in burma," as it was then called.his boss once again paused and said, "oh, but we can't do anything about human rights in burma because we don't have any trade relations with burma." this was the moment he knew he had to leave. it wasn't just the hypocrisy that got to him. it was the unwillingness of his government to engage in conflict with other governments, in tense discussions, all the while, innocent people were being harmed.we are constantly told that conflict is bad that compromise is good; that conflict is bad but consensus is good; that conflict is bad and collaboration is good. but in my view, that's far too simple a vision of the world. we cannot know whether conflict is bad unless we know who is fighting, why they are fighting and how they are fighting. and compromises can be thoroughly rotten if they harm people who are not at the table, people who are vulnerable, disempowered, people whom we have an obligation to protect.now, you might be somewhat skeptical of a lawyer arguing about the benefits of conflict and creating problems for compromise, but i did also qualify as a mediator, and these days, i spend my time giving talks about ethics for free. so as my bank manager likes to remind me, i'm downwardly mobile. but if you accept my argument, it should change not just the way we lead our personal lives, which i wish to put to one side for the moment, but it will change the way we think about major problems of public health and the environment. let me explain.every middle schooler in the united states, my 12-year-old daughter included, learns that there are three branches of government, the legislative, the executive and the judicial branch. james madison wrote, "if there is any principle more sacred in our constitution, and indeed in any free constitution, than any other, it is that which separates the legislative, the executive and the judicial powers." now, the framers were not just concerned about the concentration and exercise of power. they also understood the perils of influence. judges cannot determine the constitutionality of laws if they participate in making those laws, nor can they hold the other branches of government accountable if they collaborate with them or enter into close relationships with them. the constitution is, as one famous scholar put it, "an invitation to struggle." and we the people are served when those branches do, indeed, struggle with each other.now, we recognize the importance of struggle not just in the public sector between our branches of government. we also know it too in the private sector, in relationships among corporations. let's imagine that two american airlines get together and agree that they will not drop the price of their economy class airfares below 250 dollars a ticket. that is collaboration, some would say collusion, not competition, and we the people are harmed because we pay more for our tickets. imagine similarly two airlines were to say, "look, airline a, we'll take the route from la to chicago," and airline b says, "we'll take the route from chicago to dc, and we won't compete." once again, that's collaboration or collusion instead of competition, and we the people are harmed.so we understand the importance of struggle when it comes to relationships between branches of government, the public sector. we also understand the importance of conflict when it comes to relationships among corporations, the private sector. but where we have forgotten it is in the relationships between the public and the private. and governments all over the world are collaborating with industry to solve problems of public health and the environment, often collaborating with the very corporations that are creating or exacerbating the problems they are trying to solve. we are told that these relationships are a win-win. but what if someone is losing out?let me give you some examples. a united nations agency decided to address a serious problem: poor sanitation in schools in rural india. they did so not just in collaboration with national and local governments but also with a television company and with a major multinational soda company. in exchange for less than one million dollars, that corporation received the benefits of a months-long promotional campaign including a 12-hour telethon all using the company's logo and color scheme. this was an arrangement which was totally understandable from the corporation's point of view. it enhances the reputation of the company and it creates brand loyalty for its products. but in my view, this is profoundly problematic for the intergovernmental agency, an agency that has a mission to promote sustainable living. by increasing consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages made from scarce local water supplies and drunk out of plastic bottles in a country that is already grappling with obesity, this is neither sustainable from a public health nor an environmental point of view. and in order to solve one public health problem, the agency is sowing the seeds of another.this is just one example of dozens i discovered in researching a book on the relationships between government and industry. i could also have told you about the initiatives in parks in london and throughout britain, involving the same company, promoting exercise, or indeed of the british government creating voluntary pledges in partnership with industry instead of regulating industry. these collaborations or partnerships have become the paradigm in public health, and once again, they make sense from the point of view of industry. it allows them to frame public health problems and their solutions in ways that are least threatening to, most consonant with their commercial interests. so obesity becomes a problem of individual decision-making, of personal behavior, personal responsibility and lack of physical activity. it is not a problem, when framed this way, of a multinational food system involving major corporations.and again, i don't blame industry. industry naturally engages in strategies of influence to promote its commercial interests. but governments have a responsibility to develop counterstrategies to protect us and the common good.the mistake that governments are making when they collaborate in this way with industry is that they conflate the common good with common ground. when you collaborate with industry, you necessarily put off the table things that might promote the common good to which industry will not agree. industry will not agree to increased regulation unless it believes this will stave off even more regulation or perhaps knock some competitors out of the market. nor can companies agree to do certain things, for example raise the prices of their unhealthy products, because that would violate competition law, as we've established. so our governments should not confound the common good and common ground, especially when common ground means reaching agreement with industry.i want to give you another example, moving from high-profile collaboration to something that is below ground both literally and figuratively: the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas. imagine that you purchase a plot of land not knowing the mineral rights have been sold. this is before the fracking boom. you build your dream home on that plot, and shortly afterwards, you discover that a gas company is building a well pad on your land. that was the plight of the hallowich family. within a very short period of time, they began to complain of headaches, of sore throats, of itchy eyes, in addition to the interference of the noise, vibration and the bright lights from the flaring of natural gas. they were very vocal in their criticisms, and then they fell silent. and thanks to the pittsburgh post-gazette, where this image appeared, and one other newspaper, we discovered why they fell silent. the newspapers went to the court and said, "what happened to the hallowiches?" and it turned out the hallowiches had made a secret settlement with the gas operators, and it was a take-it-or-leave-it settlement. the gas company said, you can have a six-figure sum to move elsewhere and start your lives again, but in return you must promise not to speak of your experience with our company, not to speak of your experience with fracking, not to speak about the health consequences that might have been revealed by a medical examination. now, i do not blame the hallowiches for accepting a take-it-or-leave-it settlement and starting their lives elsewhere. and one can understand why the company would wish to silence a squeaky wheel. what i want to point the finger at is the legal and regulatory system, a system in which there are networks of agreements just like this one which serve to silence people and seal off data points from public health experts and epidemiologists, a system in which regulators will even refrain from issuing a violation notice in the event of pollution if the landowner and the gas company agree to settle. this is a system which isn't just bad from a public health point of view; it exposes hazards to local families who remain in the dark.now, i have given you two examples not because they are isolated examples. they are examples of a systemic problem. i could share some counterexamples, the case for example of the public official who sues the pharmaceutical company for concealing the fact that its antidepressant increases suicidal thoughts in adolescents. i can tell you about the regulator who went after the food company for exaggerating the purported health benefits of its yogurt. and i can tell you about the legislator who despite heavy lobbying directed at both sides of the aisle pushes for environmental protections. these are isolated examples, but they are beacons of light in the darkness, and they can show us the way.i began by suggesting that sometimes we need to engage in conflict. governments should tussle with, struggle with, at times engage in direct conflict with corporations. this is not because governments are inherently good and corporations are inherently evil. each is capable of good or ill. but corporations understandably act to promote their commercial interests, and they do so either sometimes undermining or promoting the common good. but it is the responsibility of governments to protect and promote the common good. and we should insist that they fight to do so. this is because governments are the guardians of public health; governments are the guardians of the environment; and it is governments that are guardians of these essential parts of our common good.thank you. <title = "An intergalactic guide to using a defibrillator">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'entertainment', 'health', 'heart health', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "First aid instructor">
last year, i got a chance to watch the new "star wars" movie, which was fantastic, but one thing kept bugging me. i don't know if you noticed this or not. in this entirely technically advanced world, i did not see a single aed anywhere, which was totally shocking — almost as shocking as not knowing what an aed is, which you guys do know. but for those at home, an aed is an automated external defibrillator. it's the device you use when your heart goes into cardiac arrest to shock it back into a normal rhythm, or, as one of the guys i was teaching a class to referred to it as: "the shocky-hearty-box thing." but i really can't blame the empire, since health and safety regulations aren't really their first order of business. though, even if we — i think worse than not having an aed would be if there was one there, but just, no one knew where to find it. these devices can drastically increase your chance of survival — almost like a tauntaun on hoth. but i'm pretty sure that stormtrooper is going to be toast, regardless if we have an aed or not, since what happens is the chest plate is going to be quite hard to get off, and like that tauntaun, the aed has a very short window of time at which it's highly effective. in this case — basically, we've got to use it within the first 10 minutes.the jedi, on the other hand, have no problems with their outfits. those robes open straight up, you can place the pads right onto the chest — so upper-right-hand side of the chest, lower left, wait for the unit to determine if it's a shockable rhythm and get ready to shock. but, the jedi do have a problem. they have a head appendage issue. and so i can be totally clear, thinking i'm ready to go, but i'm accidentally touching a tentacle and inadvertently shocking myself. so before you hit that button, make sure you are clear and everyone else is clear.going back to that stormtrooper: if i did get that chest plate off in time, what would you do if you suddenly found there was a wookiee under there, or possibly two ewoks? well, lucky for us, in the kit there's actually a razor, and we can use that to shave the chest on the upper right-hand side and the lower left.wookiees also have another problem. they have an accessory issue. what we want to do is remove these — anything between the two pads we want to remove, since it can cause something called "arcing." for those who don't know what arcing is, do you remember the emperor, when he shoots electricity out the ends of his fingers — that would be kind of like arcing. another thing that — oh! by the way, he creates that by wearing wool socks under his robes. we can also get arcing if we have an extremely wet chest. the electricity travels across the surface instead of through the heart. we can correct this with the immortal words of douglas adams: "don't panic," which most of us have done today — and also always having a towel. so, good words to go by.the metal bikini — unfortunately, this is where panic sets in — like the modern bra, we have to make sure we remove, because this can cause severe arcing along with burns. but unfortunately this opens up an issue that's almost as controversial as talking about the prequels. the mere mention of the word "nipples," and people get into a little bit of a tizzy. by the way, that is not a nipple, that's a cupcake. chances are, if you do have to use this, this is going to be on someone you know. and remember, everyone has nipples, except for jabba. but he does love cupcakes. speaking about jabba, if we do have to use an aed on him, remember pad placement is the same, even though he doesn't have nipples. so it's going to be upper right-hand side, lower left. if we were going through, we're shocking, getting ready to go — after we've done the shock, one of the things we need to do is remember to do compression. the preferred method is 30 compressions and two breaths in the center of the chest, between the nipples, pressing down at least two inches, no more than two and a half, at a rate of at least 100 beats a minute, no more than 120. unfortunately, due to the size of jabba's mouth and also what he puts in said mouth, we may not want to actually do the mouth-to-mouth part. so instead, we can do compression-only cpr. the way of remembering the compression-only part is we can actually use the imperial march.i would sing it for you — unfortunately, that would be more something an interrogation droid would do.yoda. small little guy, like a baby. what we do is basically treat him like a baby, in the sense that we're going to place one pad in the center of the chest and one in the back. if we place them both in the front, they can be too close and cause severe arcing, so we want to avoid that.hopefully, this helped to clarify and put some light on some of the darker issues of using an aed in the star wars universe, or any universe in total.i'll leave you with one point. remember, if you do find yourself dealing with a wookiee, do not shave the entire wookiee. this takes way too much time, and it only pisses them off. thank you very much. <title = "A simple birth kit for mothers in the developing world">
<tags = "['TED Residency', 'design', 'entrepreneur', 'family', 'global development', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'parenting', 'pregnancy', 'women']">
<occupation = "Women's health advocate">
in the next six minutes that you will listen to me, the world will have lost three mothers while delivering their babies: one, because of a severe complication; second, because she will be a teenager and her body will not be prepared for birth; but the third, only because of lack of access to basic clean tools at the time of childbirth. she will not be alone. over one million mothers and babies die every single year in the developing world, only because of lack of access to basic cleanliness while giving birth to their babies.my journey began on a hot summer afternoon in india in 2008, when after a day of meeting women and listening to their needs, i landed in a thatched hut with a midwife. as a mother, i was very curious on how she delivered babies in her house. after a deep and engaging conversation with her on how she considered it a profound calling to do what she was doing, i asked her a parting question: do you have the tools that you need to deliver the babies? i got to see her tool. "this is what i use to separate the mother and the baby," she said. unsure of how to react, i held this agricultural tool in my hand in shock. i took a picture of this, hugged her and walked away. my mind was flooded with reflections of my own infection that i had to struggle with for a year past childbirth despite having access to the best medical care, and memories of my conversation with my father, who had lost his mom to childbirth, on how he thought his life would be so different if she would have been just next to him growing up.as a product developer, i started my process of research. i was very excited to find that there was a product out there called the clean birth kit. but i just couldn't buy one for months. they were only assembled based on availability of funding. finally, when i got my hands on one, i was in shock again. i would never use these tools to deliver my baby, i thought. but to confirm my instincts, i went back to the women, some of whom had the experience of using this product.lo and behold, they had the same reaction and more. the women said they would rather deliver on a floor than on a plastic sheet that smeared blood all over. they were absolutely right — it would cause more infection. the thread provided was a highway to bacterial infection through the baby's umbilical cord, and the blade used was the kind that men used for shaving, and they did not want it anywhere close to them. there was no incentive for anybody to redesign this product, because it was based on charity. the women were never consulted in this process. and to my surprise, the need was not only in homes but also in institutional settings with high-volume births. situations in remote areas were even more daunting.this had to change. i made this my area of focus. i started the design process by collecting feedback, developing prototypes and engaging with various stakeholders researching global protocols. with every single prototype, we went back to the women to ensure that we had a product for them. what i learned through this process was that these women, despite their extreme poverty, placed great value on their health and well-being. they were absolutely not poor in mind. as with all of us, they would appreciate a well-designed product developed for their needs.after many iterations working with experts, medical health professionals and the women themselves, i should say it was not an easy process at all, but we had a simple and beautiful design. for a dollar more than what the existing product was offered for, at three dollars, we were able to deliver "janma," a clean birth kit in a purse. janma, meaning "birth," contained a blood-absorbing sheet for the woman to give birth on, a surgical scalpel, a cord clamp, a bar of soap, a pair of gloves and the first cloth to wipe the baby clean. all this came packaged in a beautiful purse that was given to the mother as a gift after all her hard work, that she carried home with pride as a symbol of prosperity.one woman reacted to this gift. she said, "is this really mine? can i keep it?" the other one said, "will you give me a different color when i have my next baby?" better yet, a woman expressed that this was the first purse that she had ever owned in her life. the kit, aside from its symbolism and its simplicity, is designed to follow globally recommended medical protocol and serves as a behavior-change tool to follow steps one after the other. it can not only be used in homes, but also in institutional settings.to date, our kit has impacted over 600,000 mothers and babies around the world. it's a humbling experience to watch these numbers grow, and i cannot wait until we reach a hundred million.but women's health issues do not end here. there are thousands of simple issues that require low-cost interventions. we have facts to prove that if we invest in women and girls and provide them with better health and well-being, they will deliver healthier and wealthier and prosperous communities. we have to start by bringing simplicity and dignity to women's health issues: from reducing maternal mortality, to breaking taboos, to empowering women to take control of their own lives. this is my dream. but it is not possible to achieve it without engaging men and women alike from around the world — yes, all of you.i recently heard this lyric by leonard cohen: "ring the bells that still can ring. forget your perfect offering. there is a crack in everything. that's how the light gets in."this is my bit of light. but we need more light. in fact, we need huge spotlights placed in the world of women's health if we need a better tomorrow. we should never forget that women are at the center of a sustainable world, and we do not exist without them.thank you. <title = "We should all be feminists">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Gender equality', 'TEDx', 'children', 'communication', 'community', 'feminism', 'gender', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'literature', 'society', 'women', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Novelist">
so i would like to start by telling you about one of my greatest friends, okoloma maduewesi. okoloma lived on my street and looked after me like a big brother. if i liked a boy, i would ask okoloma's opinion. okoloma died in the notorious sosoliso plane crash in nigeria in december of 2005. almost exactly seven years ago. okoloma was a person i could argue with, laugh with and truly talk to. he was also the first person to call me a feminist.i was about fourteen, we were at his house, arguing. both of us bristling with half bit knowledge from books that we had read. i don't remember what this particular argument was about, but i remember that as i argued and argued, okoloma looked at me and said, "you know, you're a feminist." it was not a compliment. i could tell from his tone, the same tone that you would use to say something like, "you're a supporter of terrorism." i did not know exactly what this word "feminist" meant, and i did not want okoloma to know that i did not know. so i brushed it aside, and i continued to argue. and the first thing i planned to do when i got home was to look up the word "feminist" in the dictionary.now fast forward to some years later, i wrote a novel about a man who among other things beats his wife and whose story doesn't end very well. while i was promoting the novel in nigeria, a journalist, a nice, well-meaning man, told me he wanted to advise me. and for the nigerians here, i'm sure we're all familiar with how quick our people are to give unsolicited advice. he told me that people were saying that my novel was feminist and his advice to me — and he was shaking his head sadly as he spoke — was that i should never call myself a feminist because feminists are women who are unhappy because they cannot find husbands. so i decided to call myself "a happy feminist." then an academic, a nigerian woman told me that feminism was not our culture and that feminism wasn't african, and that i was calling myself a feminist because i had been corrupted by "western books." which amused me, because a lot of my early readings were decidedly unfeminist. i think i must have read every single mills & boon romance published before i was sixteen. and each time i tried to read those books called "the feminist classics," i'd get bored, and i really struggled to finish them. but anyway, since feminism was un-african, i decided that i would now call myself "a happy african feminist." at some point i was a happy african feminist who does not hate men and who likes lip gloss and who wears high heels for herself but not for men. of course a lot of this was tongue-in-cheek, but that word feminist is so heavy with baggage, negative baggage. you hate men, you hate bras, you hate african culture, that sort of thing.now here's a story from my childhood. when i was in primary school, my teacher said at the beginning of term that she would give the class a test and whoever got the highest score would be the class monitor. now, class monitor was a big deal. if you were a class monitor, you got to write down the names of noisemakers — which was having enough power of its own. but my teacher would also give you a cane to hold in your hand while you walk around and patrol the class for noisemakers. now, of course you were not actually allowed to use the cane. but it was an exciting prospect for the nine-year-old me. i very much wanted to be the class monitor. and i got the highest score on the test. then, to my surprise, my teacher said that the monitor had to be a boy. she had forgotten to make that clear earlier because she assumed it was ... obvious. a boy had the second highest score on the test, and he would be monitor. now, what was even more interesting about this is that the boy was a sweet, gentle soul who had no interest in patrolling the class with the cane, while i was full of ambition to do so. but i was female and he was male, and so he became the class monitor. and i've never forgotten that incident.i often make the mistake of thinking that something that is obvious to me is just as obvious to everyone else. now, take my dear friend louis for example. louis is a brilliant, progressive man, and we would have conversations and he would tell me, "i don't know what you mean by things being different or harder for women. maybe in the past, but not now." and i didn't understand how louis could not see what seems so self-evident. then one evening, in lagos, louis and i went out with friends. and for people here who are not familiar with lagos, there's that wonderful lagos' fixture, the sprinkling of energetic men who hang around outside establishments and very dramatically "help" you park your car. i was impressed with the particular theatrics of the man who found us a parking spot that evening. and so as we were leaving, i decided to leave him a tip. i opened my bag, put my hand inside my bag, brought out my money that i had earned from doing my work, and i gave it to the man. and he, this man who was very grateful and very happy, took the money from me, looked across at louis and said, "thank you, sir!" louis looked at me, surprised, and asked, "why is he thanking me? i didn't give him the money." then i saw realization dawn on louis' face. the man believed that whatever money i had had ultimately come from louis. because louis is a man.men and women are different. we have different hormones, we have different sexual organs, we have different biological abilities. women can have babies, men can't. at least not yet. men have testosterone and are in general physically stronger than women. there's slightly more women than men in the world, about 52 percent of the world's population is female. but most of the positions of power and prestige are occupied by men. the late kenyan nobel peace laureate, wangari maathai, put it simply and well when she said: "the higher you go, the fewer women there are." in the recent us elections we kept hearing of the lilly ledbetter law, and if we go beyond the nicely alliterative name of that law, it was really about a man and a woman doing the same job, being equally qualified, and the man being paid more because he's a man.so in the literal way, men rule the world, and this made sense a thousand years ago because human beings lived then in a world in which physical strength was the most important attribute for survival. the physically stronger person was more likely to lead, and men, in general, are physically stronger. of course there are many exceptions. but today we live in a vastly different world. the person more likely to lead is not the physically stronger person; it is the more creative person, the more intelligent person, the more innovative person, and there are no hormones for those attributes. a man is as likely as a woman to be intelligent, to be creative, to be innovative. we have evolved; but it seems to me that our ideas of gender had not evolved.some weeks ago, i walked into a lobby of one of the best nigerian hotels. i thought about naming the hotel, but i thought i probably shouldn't. and a guard at the entrance stopped me and asked me annoying questions, because their automatic assumption is that a nigerian female walking into a hotel alone is a sex worker. and by the way, why do these hotels focus on the ostensible supply rather than the demand for sex workers? in lagos i cannot go alone into many "reputable" bars and clubs. they just don't let you in if you're a woman alone, you have to be accompanied by a man. each time i walk into a nigerian restaurant with a man, the waiter greets the man and ignores me. the waiters are products — at this some women felt like, "yes! i thought that!" the waiters are products of a society that has taught them that men are more important than women. and i know that waiters don't intend any harm. but it's one thing to know intellectually and quite another to feel it emotionally. each time they ignore me, i feel invisible. i feel upset. i want to tell them that i am just as human as the man, that i'm just as worthy of acknowledgment. these are little things, but sometimes it's the little things that sting the most.and not long ago, i wrote an article about what it means to be young and female in lagos, and the printers told me, "it was so angry." of course it was angry! i am angry. gender as it functions today is a grave injustice. we should all be angry. anger has a long history of bringing about positive change; but, in addition to being angry, i'm also hopeful. because i believe deeply in the ability of human beings to make and remake themselves for the better.gender matters everywhere in the world, but i want to focus on nigeria and on africa in general, because it is where i know, and because it is where my heart is. and i would like today to ask that we begin to dream about and plan for a different world, a fairer world, a world of happier men and happier women who are truer to themselves. and this is how to start: we must raise our daughters differently. we must also raise our sons differently. we do a great disservice to boys on how we raise them; we stifle the humanity of boys. we define masculinity in a very narrow way, masculinity becomes this hard, small cage and we put boys inside the cage. we teach boys to be afraid of fear. we teach boys to be afraid of weakness, of vulnerability. we teach them to mask their true selves, because they have to be, in nigerian speak, "hard man!" in secondary school, a boy and a girl, both of them teenagers, both of them with the same amount of pocket money, would go out and then the boy would be expected always to pay, to prove his masculinity. and yet we wonder why boys are more likely to steal money from their parents.what if both boys and girls were raised not to link masculinity with money? what if the attitude was not "the boy has to pay" but rather "whoever has more should pay?" now, of course because of that historical advantage, it is mostly men who will have more today, but if we start raising children differently, then in fifty years, in a hundred years, boys will no longer have the pressure of having to prove this masculinity. but by far the worst thing we do to males, by making them feel that they have to be hard, is that we leave them with very fragile egos. the more "hard man" the man feels compelled to be, the weaker his ego is. and then we do a much greater disservice to girls because we raise them to cater to the fragile egos of men. we teach girls to shrink themselves, to make themselves smaller, we say to girls, "you can have ambition, but not too much." "you should aim to be successful, but not too successful, otherwise you would threaten the man." if you are the breadwinner in your relationship with a man, you have to pretend that you're not, especially in public, otherwise you will emasculate him.but what if we question the premise itself? why should a woman's success be a threat to a man? what if we decide to simply dispose of that word, and i don't think there's an english word i dislike more than "emasculation." a nigerian acquaintance once asked me if i was worried that men would be intimidated by me. i was not worried at all. in fact, it had not occurred to me to be worried because a man who would be intimidated by me is exactly the kind of man i would have no interest in. but still i was really struck by this. because i'm female, i'm expected to aspire to marriage; i'm expected to make my life choices always keeping in mind that marriage is the most important. a marriage can be a good thing; it can be a source of joy and love and mutual support. but why do we teach girls to aspire to marriage and we don't teach boys the same?i know a woman who decided to sell her house because she didn't want to intimidate a man who might marry her. i know an unmarried woman in nigeria who, when she goes to conferences, wears a wedding ring because according to her, she wants the other participants in the conference to "give her respect." i know young women who are under so much pressure from family, from friends, even from work to get married, and they're pushed to make terrible choices. a woman at a certain age who is unmarried, our society teaches her to see it as a deep, personal failure. and a man at a certain age who is unmarried, we just think he hasn't come around to making his pick. it's easy for us to say, "oh, but women can just say no to all of this." but the reality is more difficult and more complex. we're all social beings. we internalize ideas from our socialization. even the language we use in talking about marriage and relationships illustrates this. the language of marriage is often the language of ownership rather than the language of partnership. we use the word "respect" to mean something a woman shows a man but often not something a man shows a woman.both men and women in nigeria will say — this is an expression i'm very amused by — "i did it for peace in my marriage." now, when men say it, it is usually about something that they should not be doing anyway. sometimes they say it to their friends, it's something to say to their friends in a kind of fondly exasperated way, you know, something that ultimately proves how masculine they are, how needed, how loved. "oh, my wife said i can't go to the club every night, so for peace in my marriage, i do it only on weekends." now, when a woman says, "i did it for peace in my marriage," she's usually talking about giving up a job, a dream, a career. we teach females that in relationships, compromise is what women do. we raise girls to see each other as competitors — not for jobs or for accomplishments, which i think can be a good thing, but for attention of men. we teach girls that they cannot be sexual beings in the way that boys are. if we have sons, we don't mind knowing about our sons' girlfriends. but our daughters' boyfriends? god forbid. but of course when the time is right, we expect those girls to bring back the perfect man to be their husbands. we police girls, we praise girls for virginity, but we don't praise boys for virginity, and it's always made me wonder how exactly this is supposed to work out because ... i mean, the loss of virginity is usually a process that involves ...recently a young woman was gang raped in a university in nigeria, i think some of us know about that. and the response of many young nigerians, both male and female, was something along the lines of this: "yes, rape is wrong. but what is a girl doing in a room with four boys?" now, if we can forget the horrible inhumanity of that response, these nigerians have been raised to think of women as inherently guilty, and they have been raised to expect so little of men that the idea of men as savage beings without any control is somehow acceptable. we teach girls shame. "close your legs." "cover yourself." we make them feel as though by being born female they're already guilty of something. and so, girls grow up to be women who cannot see they have desire. they grow up to be women who silence themselves. they grow up to be women who cannot say what they truly think, and they grow up — and this is the worst thing we did to girls — they grow up to be women who have turned pretense into an art form. i know a woman who hates domestic work, she just hates it, but she pretends that she likes it, because she's been taught that to be "good wife material" she has to be — to use that nigerian word — very "homely." and then she got married, and after a while her husband's family began to complain that she had changed. actually, she had not changed, she just got tired of pretending.the problem with gender, is that it prescribes how we should be rather than recognizing how we are.now imagine how much happier we would be, how much freer to be our true individual selves, if we didn't have the weight of gender expectations. boys and girls are undeniably different biologically, but socialization exaggerates the differences and then it becomes a self-fulfilling process. now, take cooking for example. today women in general are more likely to do the housework than men, the cooking and cleaning. but why is that? is it because women are born with a cooking gene? or because over years they have been socialized to see cooking as their role? actually, i was going to say that maybe women are born with a cooking gene, until i remember that the majority of the famous cooks in the world, whom we give the fancy title of "chefs," are men.i used to look up to my grandmother who was a brilliant, brilliant woman, and wonder how she would have been if she had the same opportunities as men when she was growing up.now today, there are many more opportunities for women than there were during my grandmother's time because of changes in policy, changes in law, all of which are very important. but what matters even more is our attitude, our mindset, what we believe and what we value about gender. what if in raising children we focus on ability instead of gender? what if in raising children we focus on interest instead of gender?i know a family who have a son and a daughter, both of whom are brilliant at school, who are wonderful, lovely children. when the boy is hungry, the parents say to the girl, "go and cook indomie noodles for your brother." now, the daughter doesn't particularly like to cook indomie noodles, but she's a girl, and so she has to. now, what if the parents, from the beginning, taught both the boy and the girl to cook indomie? cooking, by the way, is a very useful skill for boys to have. i've never thought it made sense to leave such a crucial thing, the ability to nourish oneself — in the hands of others. i know a woman who has the same degree and the same job as her husband. when they get back from work, she does most of the housework, which i think is true for many marriages. but what struck me about them was that whenever her husband changed the baby's diaper, she said "thank you" to him. now, what if she saw this as perfectly normal and natural that he should, in fact, care for his child? i'm trying to unlearn many of the lessons of gender that i internalized when i was growing up. but i sometimes still feel very vulnerable in the face of gender expectations. the first time i taught a writing class in graduate school, i was worried. i wasn't worried about the material i would teach because i was well-prepared, and i was going to teach what i enjoy teaching. instead, i was worried about what to wear. i wanted to be taken seriously. i knew that because i was female i will automatically have to prove my worth. and i was worried that if i looked too feminine, i would not be taken seriously. i really wanted to wear my shiny lip gloss and my girly skirt, but i decided not to. instead, i wore a very serious, very manly and very ugly suit. because the sad truth is that when it comes to appearance we start off with men as the standard, as the norm. if a man is getting ready for a business meeting, he doesn't worry about looking too masculine and therefore not being taken for granted. if a woman has to get ready for business meeting, she has to worry about looking too feminine and what it says and whether or not she will be taken seriously.i wish i had not worn that ugly suit that day. i've actually banished it from my closet, by the way. had i then the confidence that i have now to be myself, my students would have benefited even more from my teaching, because i would have been more comfortable and more fully and more truly myself. i have chosen to no longer be apologetic for my femaleness and for my femininity. and i want to be respected in all of my femaleness because i deserve to be. gender is not an easy conversation to have. for both men and women, to bring up gender is sometimes to encounter almost immediate resistance. i can imagine some people here are actually thinking, "women too do sef." some of the men here might be thinking, "ok, all of this is interesting, but i don't think like that." and that is part of the problem.that many men do not actively think about gender or notice gender is part of the problem of gender. that many men, say, like my friend louis, that everything is fine now. and that many men do nothing to change it. if you are a man and you walk into a restaurant with a woman and the waiter greets only you, does it occur to you to ask the waiter, "why haven't you greeted her?" because gender can be — actually, we may repose part of a longer version of this talk. so, because gender can be a very uncomfortable conversation to have, there are very easy ways to close it, to close the conversation. so some people will bring up evolutionary biology and apes, how, you know, female apes bow down to male apes and that sort of thing. but the point is we're not apes. apes also live on trees and have earthworms for breakfast, and we don't. some people will say, "well, poor men also have a hard time." and this is true. but that is not what this — but this is not what this conversation is about. gender and class are different forms of oppression. i actually learned quite a bit about systems of oppression and how they can be blind to one another by talking to black men.i was once talking to a black man about gender and he said to me, "why do you have to say 'my experience as a woman'? why can't it be 'your experience as a human being'?" now, this was the same man who would often talk about his experience as a black man.gender matters. men and women experience the world differently. gender colors the way we experience the world. but we can change that.some people will say, "oh, but women have the real power, bottom power." and for non-nigerians, bottom power is an expression which i suppose means something like a woman who uses her sexuality to get favors from men. but bottom power is not power at all. bottom power means that a woman simply has a good root to tap into, from time to time — somebody else's power. and then, of course, we have to wonder what happens when that somebody else is in a bad mood, or sick or impotent. some people will say that a woman being subordinate to a man is our culture. but culture is constantly changing. i have beautiful twin nieces who are fifteen and live in lagos. if they had been born a hundred years ago they would have been taken away and killed. because it was our culture, it was our culture to kill twins.so what is the point of culture? i mean there's the decorative, the dancing ... but also, culture really is about preservation and continuity of a people. in my family, i am the child who is most interested in the story of who we are, in our traditions, in the knowledge about ancestral lands. my brothers are not as interested as i am. but i cannot participate, i cannot go to umunna meetings, i cannot have a say. because i'm female. culture does not make people, people make culture. so if it is in fact true — so if it is in fact true that the full humanity of women is not our culture, then we must make it our culture.i think very often of my dear friend, okoloma maduewesi. may he and all the others who passed away in that sosoliso crash continue to rest in peace. he will always be remembered by those of us who loved him. and he was right that day many years ago when he called me a feminist.i am a feminist. and when i looked up the word in the dictionary that day, this is what it said: "feminist: a person who believes in the social, political and economic equality of the sexes." my great grandmother, from the stories i've heard, was a feminist. she ran away from the house of the man she did not want to marry and ended up marrying the man of her choice. she refused, she protested, she spoke up whenever she felt she was being deprived of access, of land, that sort of thing.my great grandmother did not know that word "feminist," but it doesn't mean that she wasn't one. more of us should reclaim that word. my own definition of feminist is: "a feminist is a man or a woman who says — a feminist is a man or a woman who says, "yes, there's a problem with gender as it is today, and we must fix it. we must do better." the best feminist i know is my brother kene. he's also a kind, good-looking, lovely man, and he's very masculine.thank you. <title = "How do you build a sacred space?">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'architecture', 'art', 'collaboration', 'community', 'design', 'engineering', 'faith', 'innovation', 'materials', 'public spaces', 'religion', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Architect">
the school of architecture that i studied at some 30 years ago happened to be across the street from the wonderful art gallery designed by the great architect louis kahn. i love the building, and i used to visit it quite often. one day, i saw the security guard run his hand across the concrete wall. and it was the way he did it, the expression on his face — something touched me. i could see that the security guard was moved by the building and that architecture has that capacity to move you. i could see it, and i remember thinking, "wow. how does architecture do that?"at school, i was learning to design, but here — here was a reaction of the heart. and it touched me to the core.you know, you aspire for beauty, for sensuousness, for atmosphere, the emotional response. that's the realm of the ineffable and the immeasurable. and that's what you live for: a chance to try.so in 2003, there was an open call for designs for the bahá'í temple for south america. this was the first temple in all of south america. it's a continental temple, a hugely important milestone for the bahá'í community, because this would be the last of the continental temples and would open the door for national and local temples to be built around the world.and the brief was deceptively simple and unique in the annals of religion: a circular room, nine sides, nine entrances, nine paths, allowing you to come to the temple from all directions, nine symbolizing completeness, perfection. no pulpit, no sermons, as there are no clergy in the bahá'í faith. and in a world which is putting up walls, the design needed to express in form the very opposite. it had to be open, welcoming to people of all faiths, walks of life, backgrounds, or no faith at all; a new form of sacred space with no pattern or models to draw from. it was like designing one of the first churches for christianity or one of the first mosques for islam.so we live in a secular world. how do you design sacred space today? and how do you even define what's sacred today?i stumbled across this beautiful quote from the bahá'í writings, and it speaks to prayer. it says that if you reach out in prayer, and if your prayer is answered — which is already very interesting — that the pillars of your heart will become ashine.and i loved this idea of the inner and the outer, like when you see someone and you say, "that person is radiant." and i was thinking, "my gosh, how could we make something architectural out of that, where you create a building and it becomes alive with light? like alabaster, if you kiss it with light, it becomes alive. and i drew this sketch, something with two layers, translucent with structure in between capturing light. maybe a pure form, a single form of emanation that you could imagine would be all dome and everything we kept making was looking too much like an egg. a blob.so you search. you all know this crazy search, letting the process take you, and you live for the surprises. and i remember quite by accident i saw this little video of a plant moving in light, and it made me think of movement, reach, this idea that the temple could have reach, like this reach for the divine. you can imagine also that movement within a circle could mean movement and stillness, like the cosmos, something you see in many places. but rotation was not enough, because we needed a form. in the bahá'í writings, it talks about the temples being as perfect as is humanly possible, and we kept thinking, well, what is perfection? and i remember i stumbled into this image of this japanese basket and thinking our western notions of perfection need to be challenged, that this wonderful silhouette of this basket, this wonkiness, and that it has the kind of dimple of what you might imagine a shoulder or the cheekbone, and that kind of organic form. and so we drew and made models, these lines that merge at the top, soft lines, which became like drapery and translucent veils and folding, and the idea of not only folding but torquing — you remember the plant and the way it was reaching. and this started to become an interesting form, carving the base, making the entrances.and then we ended up with this. this is this temple with two layers, nine luminous veils, embodied light, soft-flowing lines like luminescent drapery. 180 submissions were received from 80 countries, and this was selected.so we went to the next stage of how to build it. we had submitted alabaster. but alabaster was too soft, and we were experimenting, many experiments with materials, trying to think how we could have this kind of shimmer, and we ended up with borosilicate. and borosilicate glass, as you know, is very strong, and if you break borosilicate rods just so and melt them at just the right temperature, we ended up with this new material, this new cast glass which took us about two years to make. and it had this quality that we loved, this idea of the embodied light, but on the inside, we wanted something with a soft light, like the inner lining of a jacket. on the outside you have protection, but on the inside you touch it. so we found this tiny vein in a huge quarry in portugal with this beautiful stone, which the owner had kept for seven generations in his family, waiting for the right project, if you can believe it. look at this material, it's beautiful. and the way it lights up; it has that translucent quality.so here you see the structure. it lets the light through. and looking down, the nine wings are bound, structurally but symbolically strong, a great symbol of unity: pure geometry, a perfect circle, 30 meters in section and in plan, perfectly symmetrical, like the idea of sacredness and geometry. and here you see the building going up, 2,000 steel nodes, 9,000 pieces of steel, 7,800 stone pieces, 10,000 cast glass pieces, all individual shapes, the entire superstructure all described, engineered, fabricated with aerospace technology, prefabricated machine to machine, robotically, a huge team effort, you can imagine, of literally hundreds, and within three percent of our $30 million budget set in 2006. nine wings bound together forming a nine-pointed star, and the star shape moving in space, tracking the sun.so here it is.audience: wow! hopefully, a befitting response to that beautiful quote, "a prayer answered," open in all directions, capturing the blue light of dawn, tent-like white light of day, the gold light of the afternoon, and of course, at night, the reversal: sensuous, catching the light in all kinds of mysterious ways.and the site: it's interesting; 14 years ago when we made the submission, we showed the temple set against the andes. we didn't have the andes as our site, but after nine years, that's exactly where we ended up, the lines of the temple set against nothing but pure nature, and you turn around and you get nothing but the city below you, and inside, a view in all directions, radiating gardens from each of the alcoves, radiating paths.last october, the opening ceremonies — a beautiful, sacred event, 5,000 people from 80 countries, a continuous river of visitors, indigenous people from all over south america, some who had never left their villages. and of course, that this temple belongs to people, the collective, of many cultures and walks of life, many beliefs, and for me, what's most important is what it feels like on the inside; that it feel intimate, sacred, and that everyone is welcome. and if even a few who come have the same reaction as that security guard, then it truly would be their temple. and i would love that.thank you. <title = "How radio telescopes show us unseen galaxies">
<tags = "['astronomy', 'discovery', 'space', 'telescopes', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Astronomer">
space, the final frontier.i first heard these words when i was just six years old, and i was completely inspired. i wanted to explore strange new worlds. i wanted to seek out new life. i wanted to see everything that the universe had to offer. and those dreams, those words, they took me on a journey, a journey of discovery, through school, through university, to do a phd and finally to become a professional astronomer. now, i learned two amazing things, one slightly unfortunate, when i was doing my phd. i learned that the reality was i wouldn't be piloting a starship anytime soon. but i also learned that the universe is strange, wonderful and vast, actually too vast to be explored by spaceship. and so i turned my attention to astronomy, to using telescopes.now, i show you before you an image of the night sky. you might see it anywhere in the world. and all of these stars are part of our local galaxy, the milky way. now, if you were to go to a darker part of the sky, a nice dark site, perhaps in the desert, you might see the center of our milky way galaxy spread out before you, hundreds of billions of stars. and it's a very beautiful image. it's colorful. and again, this is just a local corner of our universe. you can see there's a sort of strange dark dust across it. now, that is local dust that's obscuring the light of the stars. but we can do a pretty good job. just with our own eyes, we can explore our little corner of the universe. it's possible to do better. you can use wonderful telescopes like the hubble space telescope. now, astronomers have put together this image. it's called the hubble deep field, and they've spent hundreds of hours observing just a tiny patch of the sky no larger than your thumbnail held at arm's length. and in this image you can see thousands of galaxies, and we know that there must be hundreds of millions, billions of galaxies in the entire universe, some like our own and some very different. so you think, ok, well, i can continue this journey. this is easy. i can just use a very powerful telescope and just look at the sky, no problem. it's actually really missing out if we just do that. now, that's because everything i've talked about so far is just using the visible spectrum, just the thing that your eyes can see, and that's a tiny slice, a tiny, tiny slice of what the universe has to offer us. now, there's also two very important problems with using visible light. not only are we missing out on all the other processes that are emitting other kinds of light, but there's two issues.now, the first is that dust that i mentioned earlier. the dust stops the visible light from getting to us. so as we look deeper into the universe, we see less light. the dust stops it getting to us. but there's a really strange problem with using visible light in order to try and explore the universe.now take a break for a minute. say you're standing on a corner, a busy street corner. there's cars going by. an ambulance approaches. it has a high-pitched siren.(imitates a siren passing by)the siren appeared to change in pitch as it moved towards and away from you. the ambulance driver did not change the siren just to mess with you. that was a product of your perception. the sound waves, as the ambulance approached, were compressed, and they changed higher in pitch. as the ambulance receded, the sound waves were stretched, and they sounded lower in pitch. the same thing happens with light. objects moving towards us, their light waves are compressed and they appear bluer. objects moving away from us, their light waves are stretched, and they appear redder. so we call these effects blueshift and redshift.now, our universe is expanding, so everything is moving away from everything else, and that means everything appears to be red. and oddly enough, as you look more deeply into the universe, more distant objects are moving away further and faster, so they appear more red. so if i come back to the hubble deep field and we were to continue to peer deeply into the universe just using the hubble, as we get to a certain distance away, everything becomes red, and that presents something of a problem. eventually, we get so far away everything is shifted into the infrared and we can't see anything at all.so there must be a way around this. otherwise, i'm limited in my journey. i wanted to explore the whole universe, not just whatever i can see, you know, before the redshift kicks in. there is a technique. it's called radio astronomy. astronomers have been using this for decades. it's a fantastic technique. i show you the parkes radio telescope, affectionately known as "the dish." you may have seen the movie. and radio is really brilliant. it allows us to peer much more deeply. it doesn't get stopped by dust, so you can see everything in the universe, and redshift is less of a problem because we can build receivers that receive across a large band.so what does parkes see when we turn it to the center of the milky way? we should see something fantastic, right? well, we do see something interesting. all that dust has gone. as i mentioned, radio goes straight through dust, so not a problem. but the view is very different. we can see that the center of the milky way is aglow, and this isn't starlight. this is a light called synchrotron radiation, and it's formed from electrons spiraling around cosmic magnetic fields. so the plane is aglow with this light. and we can also see strange tufts coming off of it, and objects which don't appear to line up with anything that we can see with our own eyes. but it's hard to really interpret this image, because as you can see, it's very low resolution. radio waves have a wavelength that's long, and that makes their resolution poorer. this image is also black and white, so we don't really know what is the color of everything in here.well, fast-forward to today. we can build telescopes which can get over these problems. now, i'm showing you here an image of the murchison radio observatory, a fantastic place to build radio telescopes. it's flat, it's dry, and most importantly, it's radio quiet: no mobile phones, no wi-fi, nothing, just very, very radio quiet, so a perfect place to build a radio telescope. now, the telescope that i've been working on for a few years is called the murchison widefield array, and i'm going to show you a little time lapse of it being built. this is a group of undergraduate and postgraduate students located in perth. we call them the student army, and they volunteered their time to build a radio telescope. there's no course credit for this. and they're putting together these radio dipoles. they just receive at low frequencies, a bit like your fm radio or your tv. and here we are deploying them across the desert. the final telescope covers 10 square kilometers of the western australian desert. and the interesting thing is, there's no moving parts. we just deploy these little antennas essentially on chicken mesh. it's fairly cheap. cables take the signals from the antennas and bring them to central processing units. and it's the size of this telescope, the fact that we've built it over the entire desert that gives us a better resolution than parkes.now, eventually all those cables bring them to a unit which sends it off to a supercomputer here in perth, and that's where i come in.(sighs)radio data. i have spent the last five years working with very difficult, very interesting data that no one had really looked at before. i've spent a long time calibrating it, running millions of cpu hours on supercomputers and really trying to understand that data. and with this telescope, with this data, we've performed a survey of the entire southern sky, the galactic and extragalactic all-sky mwa survey, or gleam, as i call it. and i'm very excited. this survey is just about to be published, but it hasn't been shown yet, so you are literally the first people to see this southern survey of the entire sky. so i'm delighted to share with you some images from this survey.now, imagine you went to the murchison, you camped out underneath the stars and you looked towards the south. you saw the south's celestial pole, the galaxy rising. if i fade in the radio light, this is what we observe with our survey. you can see that the galactic plane is no longer dark with dust. it's alight with synchrotron radiation, and thousands of dots are in the sky. our large magellanic cloud, our nearest galactic neighbor, is orange instead of its more familiar blue-white.so there's a lot going on in this. let's take a closer look. if we look back towards the galactic center, where we originally saw the parkes image that i showed you earlier, low resolution, black and white, and we fade to the gleam view, you can see the resolution has gone up by a factor of a hundred. we now have a color view of the sky, a technicolor view. now, it's not a false color view. these are real radio colors. what i've done is i've colored the lowest frequencies red and the highest frequencies blue, and the middle ones green. and that gives us this rainbow view. and this isn't just false color. the colors in this image tell us about the physical processes going on in the universe. so for instance, if you look along the plane of the galaxy, it's alight with synchrotron, which is mostly reddish orange, but if we look very closely, we see little blue dots. now, if we zoom in, these blue dots are ionized plasma around very bright stars, and what happens is that they block the red light, so they appear blue. and these can tell us about these star-forming regions in our galaxy. and we just see them immediately. we look at the galaxy, and the color tells us that they're there.you can see little soap bubbles, little circular images around the galactic plane, and these are supernova remnants. when a star explodes, its outer shell is cast off and it travels outward into space gathering up material, and it produces a little shell. it's been a long-standing mystery to astronomers where all the supernova remnants are. we know that there must be a lot of high-energy electrons in the plane to produce the synchrotron radiation that we see, and we think they're produced by supernova remnants, but there don't seem to be enough. fortunately, gleam is really, really good at detecting supernova remnants, so we're hoping to have a new paper out on that soon.now, that's fine. we've explored our little local universe, but i wanted to go deeper, i wanted to go further. i wanted to go beyond the milky way. well, as it happens, we can see a very interesting object in the top right, and this is a local radio galaxy, centaurus a. if we zoom in on this, we can see that there are two huge plumes going out into space. and if you look right in the center between those two plumes, you'll see a galaxy just like our own. it's a spiral. it has a dust lane. it's a normal galaxy. but these jets are only visible in the radio. if we looked in the visible, we wouldn't even know they were there, and they're thousands of times larger than the host galaxy.what's going on? what's producing these jets? at the center of every galaxy that we know about is a supermassive black hole. now, black holes are invisible. that's why they're called that. all you can see is the deflection of the light around them, and occasionally, when a star or a cloud of gas comes into their orbit, it is ripped apart by tidal forces, forming what we call an accretion disk. the accretion disk glows brightly in the x-rays, and huge magnetic fields can launch the material into space at nearly the speed of light. so these jets are visible in the radio and this is what we pick up in our survey.well, very well, so we've seen one radio galaxy. that's nice. but if you just look at the top of that image, you'll see another radio galaxy. it's a little bit smaller, and that's just because it's further away. ok. two radio galaxies. we can see this. this is fine. well, what about all the other dots? presumably those are just stars. they're not. they're all radio galaxies. every single one of the dots in this image is a distant galaxy, millions to billions of light-years away with a supermassive black hole at its center pushing material into space at nearly the speed of light. it is mind-blowing. and this survey is even larger than what i've shown here. if we zoom out to the full extent of the survey, you can see i found 300,000 of these radio galaxies. so it's truly an epic journey. we've discovered all of these galaxies right back to the very first supermassive black holes. i'm very proud of this, and it will be published next week.now, that's not all. i've explored the furthest reaches of the galaxy with this survey, but there's something even more in this image. now, i'll take you right back to the dawn of time. when the universe formed, it was a big bang, which left the universe as a sea of hydrogen, neutral hydrogen. and when the very first stars and galaxies switched on, they ionized that hydrogen. so the universe went from neutral to ionized. that imprinted a signal all around us. everywhere, it pervades us, like the force. now, because that happened so long ago, the signal was redshifted, so now that signal is at very low frequencies. it's at the same frequency as my survey, but it's so faint. it's a billionth the size of any of the objects in my survey. so our telescope may not be quite sensitive enough to pick up this signal. however, there's a new radio telescope. so i can't have a starship, but i can hopefully have one of the biggest radio telescopes in the world. we're building the square kilometre array, a new radio telescope, and it's going to be a thousand times bigger than the mwa, a thousand times more sensitive, and have an even better resolution. so we should find tens of millions of galaxies. and perhaps, deep in that signal, i will get to look upon the very first stars and galaxies switching on, the beginning of time itself.thank you. <title = "A video game to cope with grief">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'art', 'cancer', 'children', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'death', 'gaming', 'humanity', 'life', 'parenting', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Video game designer">
two months ago, my kids and i huddled around a cell phone watching the live stream of the game awards, one of the video game industry's biggest nights. they announced the nominees for the game for impact, an award that's given to a thought-provoking video game with a profound prosocial message or meaning. they opened the envelope and they read the title of our video game. an award ... for impact. it was almost funny, actually, because i always thought that winning an award like that would have this huge impact on my life, but i found that the opposite is true.the big nights, the accomplishments — they fade. but the hardest nights of my life have stuck with me, impacting who i am and what i do.in 2010, my third son, joel, was diagnosed with a rare and aggressive brain tumor. and before that year was finished, doctors sat my husband and i down and let us know that his tumor had returned despite the most aggressive chemotherapy and radiation that they could offer him. on that terrible night, after learning that joel had perhaps four months to live, i cuddled up with my two older sons in bed — they were five and three at the time — and i never really knew how much they understood, so i started telling them a bedtime story. i told them about this very brave knight named joel and his adventure fighting a terrible dragon called cancer. every night, i told them more of the story, but i never let the story end. i was just building up a context that they could understand and hoping that our prayers would be answered and i would never have to tell them that that knight, who had fought so bravely, was done fighting and could rest now, forever.fortunately, i never did have to finish that bedtime story. my children outgrew it. joel responded better than anyone expected to palliative treatment, and so instead of months, we spent years learning how to love our dying child with all of our hearts. learning to recognize that shameful feeling of holding back just a little love to try to spare ourselves just a little pain somewhere further down the road. we pushed past that self-preservation because joel was worth loving even if that love could crush us. and that lesson of intense vulnerability has changed me ... more than any award ever could.we started living like joel could live, and we began developing a video game called "that dragon, cancer." it was the story of joel. it was the story of hope in the shadow of death. it was the story of faith and doubt, and the realization that a wrestle with doubt is a part of faith — maybe the biggest part of it. it was a story that began as a miracle and ended as a memorial.(music)(giggle)(clapping)(music)(video) dad: bouncing around, do you like that?(giggle)i love your giggle.(music)(giggle)[a journey of hope in the shadow of death][that dragon, cancer](music)when you play "that dragon, cancer," you're transformed into a witness of joel's life, exploring an emotional landscape, clicking to discover more of what we as a family felt and experienced. it feels a little bit like analyzing interactive poetry because every game mechanic is a metaphor, and so the more the player asks themselves what we as designers were trying to express and why, the richer the experience becomes.we took that vulnerability that joel taught us, and we encoded the game with it. players expect their video games to offer them branching narrative so that every decision that they make feels important and can change the outcome of the game. we subverted that principle of game design, collapsing the choices in on the player so that they discover for themselves that there is nothing that they can do that will change the outcome for joel. and they feel that discovery as deeply and desperately as we felt it on nights when we held joel in our arms praying for hours, stubbornly holding out hope for a grace that we could not create for ourselves.we'd all prefer to win, but when you discover that you can't win, what do you value instead?i never planned to write video games, but these moments that really change our lives, they often come as the result of our hardship — and not our glory. when we thought that joel could live, i left the game designing to my husband. i chimed in here and there with a scene or two and some suggestions. but after the night that joel died, the passion, the possibility of sharing joel's life through our video game — it was something that i couldn't resist. i started writing more, i sat in on our team's design meetings, i added more ideas and i helped direct scenes. and i discovered that creating a video game is telling a story, but with an entirely new vocabulary. all the same elements of imagination and symbolism are there, but they're just partnered with player agency and system responsiveness. it's challenging work. i have to think in a totally new way to do it, but i love it. and i wouldn't have known that without joel.maybe you're a little surprised by our choice to share our story of terminal cancer through a video game. perhaps you're even thinking like so many people before you: cancer is not a game. well, tell that to any pediatric cancer parent that's ever taken an exam glove and blown it up into a balloon, or transformed a syringe into a rocket ship, or let their child ride their iv pole through the hospital halls like it was a race car. because when you have children, everything is a game. and when your young child experiences something traumatic, you work even harder to make sure that their life feels like a game because children naturally explore their worlds through play. while cancer can steal many things from a family, it shouldn't steal play.if you're listening to me and you're trying to imagine this family that revolves entirely around a dying child, and you can't imagine joy as part of that picture, then we were right to share our story with you, because that season of our life was hard. unspeakably hard at times, but it was also pure hope, deep love and joy like i have never experienced since. our video game was our attempt to share that world with people who hadn't experienced it before, because we never could imagine that world until it became ours.we made a video game that's hard to play. it will never be a blockbuster. people have to prepare themselves to invest emotionally in a story that they know will break their hearts. but when our hearts break, they heal a little differently. my broken heart has been healing with a new and a deeper compassion — a desire to sit with people in their pain, to hear their stories and try to help tell them so that they know that they're seen.on the night when "that dragon, cancer" won the game for impact award, we cheered, we smiled and we talked about joel and the impact he had on our life — on all of those hard and hopeful nights that we shared with him when he changed our hearts and taught us so much more about life and love and faith and purpose. that award will never mean as much to me as even a single photograph of my son, but it does represent all of the people who his life has impacted, people i'll never meet. they write me emails sometimes. they tell me that they miss joel, even though they never met him. they describe the tears that they've shed for my son, and it makes my burden of grief just a little bit lighter knowing that it's shared with a 10-year-old watching a youtube playthrough, or a doctor playing on his airplane with a smartphone, or a professor introducing joel to her first-year philosophy students.we made a video game that's hard to play. but that feels just right to me, because the hardest moments of our lives change us more than any goal we could ever accomplish. tragedy has shifted my heart more than any dream i could ever see come true.thank you. <title = "A doctor's case for medical marijuana">
<tags = "['Addiction', 'TEDMED', 'cancer', 'communication', 'health', 'health care', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'mental health', 'pharmaceuticals', 'policy', 'science', 'social change', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Physician">
i would like to tell you about the most embarrassing thing that has ever happened to me in my years of working as a palliative care physician. this happened a couple of years ago. i was asked as a consultant to see a woman in her 70s — retired english professor who had pancreatic cancer. i was asked to see her because she had pain, nausea, vomiting ... when i went to see her, we talked about those symptoms and in the course of that consultation, she asked me whether i thought that medical marijuana might help her. i thought back to everything that i had learned in medical school about medical marijuana, which didn't take very long because i had learned absolutely nothing. and so i told her that as far as i knew, medical marijuana had no benefits whatsoever. and she smiled and nodded and reached into the handbag next to the bed, and pulled out a stack of about a dozen randomized controlled trials showing that medical marijuana has benefits for symptoms like nausea and pain and anxiety. she handed me those articles and said, "maybe you should read these before offering an opinion ... doctor." so i did. that night i read all of those articles and found a bunch more. when i came to see her the next morning, i had to admit that it looks like there is some evidence that marijuana can offer medical benefits and i suggested that if she really was interested, she should try it. you know what she said? this 73-year-old, retired english professor? she said, "i did try it about six months ago. it was amazing. i've been using it every day since. it's the best drug i've discovered. i don't know why it took me 73 years to discover this stuff. it's amazing." that was the moment at which i realized i needed to learn something about medical marijuana because what i was prepared for in medical school bore no relationship to reality.so i started reading more articles, i started talking to researchers, i started talking to doctors, and most importantly, i started listening to patients. i ended up writing a book based on those conversations, and that book really revolved around three surprises — surprises to me, anyway. one i already alluded to — that there really are some benefits to medical marijuana. those benefits may not be as huge or as stunning as some of the most avid proponents of medical marijuana would have us believe, but they are real. surprise number two: medical marijuana does have some risks. those risks may not be as huge and as scary as some of the opponents of medical marijuana would have us believe, but they are real risks, nonetheless. but it was the third surprise that was most ... surprising. and that is that a lot of the patients i talked with who've turned to medical marijuana for help, weren't turning to medical marijuana because of its benefits or the balance of risks and benefits, or because they thought it was a wonder drug, but because it gave them control over their illness. it let them manage their health in a way that was productive and efficient and effective and comfortable for them.to show you what i mean, let me tell you about another patient. robin was in her early 40s when i met her. she looked though like she was in her late 60s. she had suffered from rheumatoid arthritis for the last 20 years, her hands were gnarled by arthritis, her spine was crooked, she had to rely on a wheelchair to get around. she looked weak and frail, and i guess physically she probably was, but emotionally, cognitively, psychologically, she was among the toughest people i've ever met. and when i sat down next to her in a medical marijuana dispensary in northern california to ask her about why she turned to medical marijuana, what it did for her and how it helped her, she started out by telling me things that i had heard from many patients before. it helped with her anxiety; it helped with her pain; when her pain was better, she slept better. and i'd heard all that before. but then she said something that i'd never heard before, and that is that it gave her control over her life and over her health. she could use it when she wanted, in the way that she wanted, at the dose and frequency that worked for her. and if it didn't work for her, then she could make changes. everything was up to her. the most important thing she said was she didn't need anybody else's permission — not a clinic appointment, not a doctor's prescription, not a pharmacist's order. it was all up to her. she was in control.and if that seems like a little thing for somebody with chronic illness, it's not — not at all. when we face a chronic serious illness, whether it's rheumatoid arthritis or lupus or cancer or diabetes, or cirrhosis, we lose control. and note what i said: "when," not "if." all of us at some point in our lives will face a chronic serious illness that causes us to lose control. we'll see our function decline, some of us will see our cognition decline, we'll be no longer able to care for ourselves, to do the things that we want to do. our bodies will betray us, and in that process, we'll lose control. and that's scary. not just scary — that's frightening, it's terrifying. when i talk to my patients, my palliative care patients, many of whom are facing illnesses that will end their lives, they have a lot of be frightened of — pain, nausea, vomiting, constipation, fatigue, their impending mortality. but what scares them more than anything else is this possibility that at some point, tomorrow or a month from now, they're going to lose control of their health, of their lives, of their healthcare, and they're going to become dependent on others, and that's terrifying.so it's no wonder really that patients like robin, who i just told you about, who i met in that clinic, turn to medical marijuana to try to claw back some semblance of control. how do they do it though? how do these medical marijuana dispensaries — like the one where i met robin — how do they give patients like robin back the sort of control that they need? and how do they do it in a way that mainstream medical hospitals and clinics, at least for robin, weren't able to? what's their secret? so i decided to find out.i went to a seedy clinic in venice beach in california and got a recommendation that would allow me to be a medical marijuana patient. i got a letter of recommendation that would let me buy medical marijuana. i got that recommendation illegally, because i'm not a resident of california — i should note that. i should also note, for the record, that i never used that letter of recommendation to make a purchase, and to all of you dea agents out there — love the work that you're doing, keep it up. even though it didn't let me make a purchase though, that letter was priceless because it let me be a patient. it let me experience what patients like robin experience when they go to a medical marijuana dispensary. and what i experienced — what they experience every day, hundreds of thousands of people like robin — was really amazing. i walked into the clinic, and from the moment that i entered many of these clinics and dispensaries, i felt like that dispensary, that clinic, was there for me. there were questions at the outset about who i am, what kind of work i do, what my goals are in looking for a medical marijuana prescription, or product, what my goals are, what my preferences are, what my hopes are, how do i think, how do i hope this might help me, what am i afraid of. these are the sorts of questions that patients like robin get asked all the time. these are the sorts of questions that make me confident that the person i'm talking with really has my best interests at heart and wants to get to know me.the second thing i learned in those clinics is the availability of education. education from the folks behind the counter, but also education from folks in the waiting room. people i met were more than happy, as i was sitting next to them — people like robin — to tell me about who they are, why they use medical marijuana, what helps them, how it helps them, and to give me advice and suggestions. those waiting rooms really are a hive of interaction, advice and support.and third, the folks behind the counter. i was amazed at how willing those people were to spend sometimes an hour or more talking me through the nuances of this strain versus that strain, smoking versus vaporizing, edibles versus tinctures — all, remember, without me making any purchase whatsoever. think about the last time you went to any hospital or clinic and the last time anybody spent an hour explaining those sorts of things to you. the fact that patients like robin are going to these clinics, are going to these dispensaries and getting that sort of personalized attention and education and service, really should be a wake-up call to the healthcare system. people like robin are turning away from mainstream medicine, turning to medical marijuana dispensaries because those dispensaries are giving them what they need.if that's a wake-up call to the medical establishment, it's a wake-up call that many of my colleagues are either not hearing or not wanting to hear. when i talk to my colleagues, physicians in particular, about medical marijuana, they say, "oh, we need more evidence. we need more research into benefits, we need more evidence about risks." and you know what? they're right. they're absolutely right. we do need much more evidence about the benefits of medical marijuana. we also need to ask the federal government to reschedule marijuana to schedule ii, or to deschedule it entirely to make that research possible. we also need more research into medical marijuana's risks. medical marijuana's risks — we know a lot about the risks of recreational use, we know next to nothing about the risks of medical marijuana. so we absolutely do need research, but to say that we need research and not that we need to make any changes now is to miss the point entirely. people like robin aren't seeking out medical marijuana because they think it's a wonder drug, or because they think it's entirely risk-free. they seek it out because the context in which it's delivered and administered and used, gives them the sort of control they need over their lives. and that's a wake-up call we really need to pay attention to.the good news though is that there are lessons we can learn today from those medical marijuana dispensaries. and those are lessons we really should learn. these are often small, mom-and-pop operations run by people with no medical training. and while it's embarrassing to think that many of these clinics and dispensaries are providing services and support and meeting patients' needs in ways that billion-dollar healthcare systems aren't — we should be embarrassed by that — but we can also learn from that. and there are probably three lessons at least that we can learn from those small dispensaries.one: we need to find ways to give patients more control in small but important ways. how to interact with healthcare providers, when to interact with healthcare providers, how to use medications in ways that work for them. in my own practice, i've gotten much more creative and flexible in supporting my patients in using drugs safely to manage their symptoms — with the emphasis on safely. many of the drugs i prescribe are drugs like opioids or benzodiazepines which can be dangerous if overused. but here's the point. they can be dangerous if they're overused, but they can also be ineffective if they're not used in a way that's consistent with what patients want and need. so that flexibility, if it's delivered safely, can be extraordinarily valuable for patients and their families. that's number one.number two: education. huge opportunities to learn from some of the tricks of those medical marijuana dispensaries to provide more education that doesn't require a lot of physician time necessarily, or any physician time, but opportunities to learn about what medications we're using and why, prognoses, trajectories of illness, and most importantly, opportunities for patients to learn from each other. how can we replicate what goes on in those clinic and medical dispensary waiting rooms? how patients learn from each other, how people share with each other.and last but not least, putting patients first the way those medical marijuana dispensaries do, making patients feel legitimately like what they want, what they need, is why, as healthcare providers, we're here. asking patients about their hopes, their fears, their goals and preferences. as a palliative care provider, i ask all my patients what they're hoping for and what they're afraid of. but here's the thing. patients shouldn't have to wait until they're chronically seriously ill, often near the end of life, they shouldn't have to wait until they're seeing a physician like me before somebody asks them, "what are you hoping for?" "what are you afraid of?" that should be baked into the way that healthcare is delivered.we can do this — we really can. medical marijuana dispensaries and clinics all across the country are figuring this out. they're figuring this out in ways that larger, more mainstream health systems are years behind. but we can learn from them, and we have to learn from them. all we have to do is swallow our pride — put aside the thought for a minute that because we have lots of letters after our name, because we're experts, because we're chief medical officers of a large healthcare system, we know all there is to know about how to meet patients' needs.we need to swallow our pride. we need to go visit a few medical marijuana dispensaries. we need to figure out what they're doing. we need to figure out why so many patients like robin are leaving our mainstream medical clinics and going to these medical marijuana dispensaries instead. we need to figure out what their tricks are, what their tools are, and we need to learn from them. if we do, and i think we can, and i absolutely think we have to, we can guarantee all of our patients will have a much better experience.thank you. <title = "How I learned to read -- and trade stocks -- in prison">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'TEDx', 'business', 'capitalism', 'communication', 'economics', 'finance', 'goal-setting', 'investment', 'motivation', 'potential', 'prison', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Financial literacy advocate">
i was 14 years old inside of a bowling alley, burglarizing an arcade game, and upon exiting the building a security guard grabbed my arm, so i ran. i ran down the street, and i jumped on top of a fence. and when i got to the top, the weight of 3,000 quarters in my book bag pulled me back down to the ground. so when i came to, the security guard was standing on top of me, and he said, "next time you little punks steal something you can carry." i was taken to juvenile hall and when i was released into the custody of my mother, the first words my uncle said was, "how'd you get caught?" i said, "man, the book bag was too heavy." he said, "man, you weren't supposed to take all the quarters." i said, "man, they were small. what am i supposed to do?" and 10 minutes later, he took me to burglarize another arcade game. we needed gas money to get home. that was my life.i grew up in oakland, california, with my mother and members of my immediate family addicted to crack cocaine. my environment consisted of living with family, friends, and homeless shelters. oftentimes, dinner was served in breadlines and soup kitchens. the big homey told me this: money rules the world and everything in it. and in these streets, money is king. and if you follow the money, it'll lead you to the bad guy or the good guy.soon after, i committed my first crime, and it was the first time that i was told that i had potential and felt like somebody believed in me. nobody ever told me that i could be a lawyer, doctor or engineer. i mean, how was i supposed to do that? i couldn't read, write or spell. i was illiterate. so i always thought crime was my way to go.and then one day i was talking to somebody and he was telling me about this robbery that we could do. and we did it.the reality was that i was growing up in the strongest financial nation in the world, the united states of america, while i watched my mother stand in line at a blood bank to sell her blood for 40 dollars just to try to feed her kids. she still has the needle marks on her arms to day to show for that.so i never cared about my community. they didn't care about my life. everybody there was doing what they were doing to take what they wanted, the drug dealers, the robbers, the blood bank. everybody was taking blood money. so i got mine by any means necessary. i got mine. financial literacy really did rule the world, and i was a child slave to it following the bad guy.at 17 years old, i was arrested for robbery and murder and i soon learned that finances in prison rule more than they did on the streets, so i wanted in. one day, i rushed to grab the sports page of the newspaper so my cellie could read it to me, and i accidentally picked up the business section. and this old man said, "hey youngster, you pick stocks?" and i said, "what's that?" he said, "that's the place where white folks keep all their money." and it was the first time that i saw a glimpse of hope, a future. he gave me this brief description of what stocks were, but it was just a glimpse. i mean, how was i supposed to do it? i couldn't read, write or spell. the skills that i had developed to hide my illiteracy no longer worked in this environment. i was trapped in a cage, prey among predators, fighting for freedom i never had. i was lost, tired, and i was out of options.so at 20 years old, i did the hardest thing i'd ever done in my life. i picked up a book, and it was the most agonizing time of my life, trying to learn how to read, the ostracizing from my family, the homeys. it was rough, man. it was a struggle. but little did i know i was receiving the greatest gifts i had ever dreamed of: self-worth, knowledge, discipline. i was so excited to be reading that i read everything i could get my hands on: candy wrappers, clothing logos, street signs, everything. i was just reading stuff! just reading stuff. i was so excited to know how to read and know how to spell. the homey came up, said, "man, what you eating?" i said, "c-a-n-d-y, candy." he said, "let me get some." i said, "n-o. no." it was awesome. i mean, i can actually now for the first time in my life read. the feeling that i got from it was amazing.and then at 22, feeling myself, feeling confident, i remembered what the og told me. so i picked up the business section of the newspaper. i wanted to find these rich white folks. so i looked for that glimpse. as i furthered my career in teaching others how to financially manage money and invest, i soon learned that i had to take responsibility for my own actions. true, i grew up in a very complex environment, but i chose to commit crimes, and i had to own up to that. i had to take responsibility for that, and i did. i was building a curriculum that could teach incarcerated men how to manage money through prison employments. properly managing our lifestyle would provide transferrable tools that we can use to manage money when we reenter society, like the majority of people did who didn't commit crimes. then i discovered that according to marketwatch, over 60 percent of the american population has under 1,000 dollars in savings. sports illustrated said that over 60 percent of nba players and nfl players go broke. 40 percent of marital problems derive from financial issues. what the hell? you mean to tell me that people worked their whole lives, buying cars, clothes, homes and material stuff but were living check to check? how in the world were members of society going to help incarcerated individuals back into society if they couldn't manage they own stuff? we screwed. i needed a better plan. this is not going to work out too well. so ... i thought. i now had an obligation to meet those on the path and help, and it was crazy because i now cared about my community. wow, imagine that. i cared about my community.financial illiteracy is a disease that has crippled minorities and the lower class in our society for generations and generations, and we should be furious about that. ask yourselves this: how can 50 percent of the american population be financially illiterate in a nation driven by financial prosperity? our access to justice, our social status, living conditions, transportation and food are all dependent on money that most people can't manage. it's crazy! it's an epidemic and a bigger danger to public safety than any other issue.according to the california department of corrections, over 70 percent of those incarcerated have committed or have been charged with money-related crimes: robberies, burglaries, fraud, larceny, extortion — and the list goes on. check this out: a typical incarcerated person would enter the california prison system with no financial education, earn 30 cents an hour, over 800 dollars a year, with no real expenses and save no money. upon his parole, he will be given 200 dollars gate money and told, "hey, good luck, stay out of trouble. don't come back to prison." with no meaningful preparation or long-term financial plan, what does he do ... ? at 60? get a good job, or go back to the very criminal behavior that led him to prison in the first place? you taxpayers, you choose. well, his education already chose for him, probably.so how do we cure this disease? i cofounded a program that we call financial empowerment emotional literacy. we call it feel, and it teaches how do you separate your emotional decisions from your financial decisions, and the four timeless rules to personal finance: the proper way to save, control your cost of living, borrow money effectively and diversify your finances by allowing your money to work for you instead of you working for it. incarcerated people need these life skills before we reenter society. you can't have full rehabilitation without these life skills. this idea that only professionals can invest and manage money is absolutely ridiculous, and whoever told you that is lying. a professional is a person who knows his craft better than most, and nobody knows how much money you need, have or want better than you, which means you are the professional. financial literacy is not a skill, ladies and gentlemen. it's a lifestyle. financial stability is a byproduct of a proper lifestyle. a financially sound incarcerated person can become a taxpaying citizen, and a financially sound taxpaying citizen can remain one. this allows us to create a bridge between those people who we influence: family, friends and those young people who still believe that crime and money are related. so let's lose the fear and anxiety of all the big financial words and all that other nonsense that you've been out there hearing. and let's get to the heart of what's been crippling our society from taking care of your responsibility to be better life managers. and let's provide a simple and easy to use curriculum that gets to the heart, the heart of what financial empowerment and emotional literacy really is.now, if you're sitting out here in the audience and you said, "oh yeah, well, that ain't me and i don't buy it," then come take my class — so i can show you how much money it costs you every time you get emotional. thank you very much. thank you. <title = "How fake news does real harm">
<tags = "['Africa', 'communication', 'community', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'journalism', 'social change', 'society', 'terrorism', 'trafficking', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Journalist">
i want to tell you a story about a girl. but i can't tell you her real name. so let's just call her hadiza.hadiza is 20. she's shy, but she has a beautiful smile that lights up her face. but she's in constant pain. and she will likely be on medication for the rest of her life.do you want to know why? hadiza is a chibok girl, and on april 14, 2014, she was kidnapped by boko haram terrorists. she managed to escape, though, by jumping off the truck that was carrying the girls. but when she landed, she broke both her legs, and she had to crawl on her tummy to hide in the bushes. she told me she was terrified that boko haram would come back for her. she was one of 57 girls who would escape by jumping off trucks that day.this story, quite rightly, caused ripples around the world. people like michelle obama, malala and others lent their voices in protest, and at about the same time — i was living in london at the time — i was sent from london to abuja to cover the world economic forum that nigeria was hosting for the first time. but when we arrived, it was clear that there was only one story in town. we put the government under pressure. we asked tough questions about what they were doing to bring these girls back. understandably, they weren't too happy with our line of questioning, and let's just say we received our fair share of "alternative facts." influential nigerians were telling us at the time that we were naïve, we didn't understand the political situation in nigeria. but they also told us that the story of the chibok girls was a hoax. sadly, this hoax narrative has persisted, and there are still people in nigeria today who believe that the chibok girls were never kidnapped. yet i was talking to people like these — devastated parents, who told us that on the day boko haram kidnapped their daughters, they ran into the sambisa forest after the trucks carrying their daughters. they were armed with machetes, but they were forced to turn back because boko haram had guns.for two years, inevitably, the news agenda moved on, and for two years, we didn't hear much about the chibok girls. everyone presumed they were dead. but in april last year, i was able to obtain this video. this is a still from the video that boko haram filmed as a proof of life, and through a source, i obtained this video. but before i could publish it, i had to travel to the northeast of nigeria to talk to the parents, to verify it. i didn't have to wait too long for confirmation. one of the mothers, when she watched the video, told me that if she could have reached into the laptop and pulled our her child from the laptop, she would have done so. for those of you who are parents, like myself, in the audience, you can only imagine the anguish that that mother felt.this video would go on to kick-start negotiation talks with boko haram. and a nigerian senator told me that because of this video they entered into those talks, because they had long presumed that the chibok girls were dead. twenty-one girls were freed in october last year. sadly, nearly 200 of them still remain missing.i must confess that i have not been a dispassionate observer covering this story. i am furious when i think about the wasted opportunities to rescue these girls. i am furious when i think about what the parents have told me, that if these were daughters of the rich and the powerful, they would have been found much earlier. and i am furious that the hoax narrative, i firmly believe, caused a delay; it was part of the reason for the delay in their return.this illustrates to me the deadly danger of fake news. so what can we do about it? there are some very smart people, smart engineers at google and facebook, who are trying to use technology to stop the spread of fake news. but beyond that, i think everybody here — you and i — we have a role to play in that. we are the ones who share the content. we are the ones who share the stories online. in this day and age, we're all publishers, and we have responsibility.in my job as a journalist, i check, i verify. i trust my gut, but i ask tough questions. why is this person telling me this story? what do they have to gain by sharing this information? do they have a hidden agenda? i really believe that we must all start to ask tougher questions of information that we discover online.research shows that some of us don't even read beyond headlines before we share stories. who here has done that? i know i have. but what if we stopped taking information that we discover at face value? what if we stop to think about the consequence of the information that we pass on and its potential to incite violence or hatred? what if we stop to think about the real-life consequences of the information that we share?thank you very much for listening. <title = "Science in service to the public good">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'algorithm', 'communication', 'community', 'engineering', 'environment', 'health', 'humanity', 'public health', 'science', 'society', 'water']">
<occupation = "Environmental engineer">
fresh out of college, i went to work for a consulting firm. during orientation, the leaders dished out advice. amongst them was one pithy counsel i will never forget. he told us, "be easy to manage." considering how naïve i really was at the time, i took his advice to heart. i told myself, "yes, i will be the ultimate team player. i will do everything i'm told. i will be easy to manage." it wasn't until i arrived in graduate school and witnessed firsthand the criminal actions of scientists and engineers in the water crisis in flint, michigan that i realized how dangerous and yet surprisingly common this line of thinking really is.make no mistake: the flint water crisis is one of the most egregious environmental injustices of our time. for over 18 months, 100,000 residents, including thousands of young children, were exposed to contaminated drinking water with high levels of lead. lead is a potent neurotoxin which causes cognitive and developmental disabilities and is especially harmful to growing fetuses and young children. we've known about its dangers since the roman empire. amongst a whole host of health issues, 12 people died by contracting legionnaires' disease. flint's water infrastructure — the complex network of underground pipes — has been severely damaged. and while the water quality is slowly improving and the pipes are being replaced now, more than two years later, the water is still not safe to drink.so, people are still in shock. they ask themselves, "how could this have happened?" the short answer is: the crisis began when an emergency manager, appointed by michigan's governor, decided to switch their water source to a local river to save money. but it continued for so long because scientists and engineers at government agencies in the state of michigan and in the federal government did not follow federal regulations for treating the water right. what was more, they actively cheated on the law and orchestrated cover-ups. they ridiculed residents asking for help, while publicly insisting that the brown, smelly water coming out of the tap was safe to drink. the system at the local, state and federal levels completely failed to protect our most vulnerable, and an entire population was left to fend for itself.now, amidst this injustice, flint residents were rallying together. amongst them were some amazing women of flint — mothers concerned about their kids — who came together forming many grassroots coalitions, and these groups started protesting and demanding change. the group also reached out to outside scientists for help, and a few responded. amongst them was a guy named miguel del toral, a water expert at the us epa — the environmental protection agency — who actually wrote this scientific memo and sent it to the state of michigan and the federal government to bring their attention to this problem. he was characterized a "rogue employee," and silenced.in collaboration with flint residents, our research team here at tech, of students and scientists led by professor marc edwards, conducted citywide testing to prove that flint's water was indeed contaminated, even toxic in some homes. we substantiated what flint had been screaming for months, and put it on the internet for the world to see.now, when i was getting involved, when i said yes to this, i had no idea what i was getting into. but every second of this journey has been totally worth it. this was science in service to the public. this is what i came to graduate school for, and this is how i would rather spend my life. and so this coalition — this unlikely coalition of citizens, pastors, journalists and scientists — came together to uncover the truth using science, advocacy and activism.a local pediatrician figured out that the instances of childhood lead poisoning had indeed doubled in flint during the crisis. and the state of michigan was forced to acknowledge the problem and take steps to correct it. this group and many others got flint's kids protected.a few months later, president obama came in and declared a federal emergency, and now flint is getting more than 600 million dollars in healthcare, nutrition, education and overhauling their water infrastructure. however, the arrogance and the callous disregard for public health shown by scientists and engineers at these government agencies is beyond belief. these unhealthy cultures that are festering in these groups, where the focus is on meeting regulations and checking boxes as opposed to protecting public health, is just appalling. just consider this email that an epa employee wrote, where she goes, "i'm not so sure flint is a community we want to go out on a limb for." the dehumanization of an entire population could not be more obvious.now, contrast that to the first canon of engineering, which, in my opinion, should be the first law of humanity: "to hold paramount the health, safety and welfare of the public," above all else. this is the hippocratic oath we've rarely acknowledged, let alone embraced. and so when scientists and engineers, very much like medical doctors, screw up, people can get hurt — even die. if our professionals and even students fail to get that, society pays a huge price.buried deep in history lies a character i deeply admire — an engineer named peter palchinsky. he lived in the time of the soviet union. and palchinsky repeatedly got in trouble for his radical honesty and willingness to point out major flaws in the soviets' mindless pursuit of rapid industrialization. everyone was expected to follow orders coming from the top. anyone asking questions or offering feedback was unwelcome. the soviets had created the largest army of engineers the world had ever seen, and yet most of them were mere cogs in a gigantic machine heading for doom. palchinsky, on the other hand, implored engineers to look at the economic, political and social consequences of their actions; in other words, be more public-focused. his fearless voice of reason was seen as a threat to the political establishment, and joseph stalin had him executed in 1929.palchinsky's view on technocrats is very different from one that is still very popular, still very common — that of a dispassionate researcher working in his ivory tower lab, or a nerdy engineer working in his cubicle. brilliant, no doubt, yet somehow cut off from the world, shows little emotion — kind of like spock from "star trek," you know? this guy. let's try and do the spock salute. i don't think i'll succeed ... see, i can't be spock. thank goodness i can't be spock. i was reminded of this distinction because a recent article came out in a very reputed scientific journal, which kind of characterized our flint work as driven by "youthful idealism," and "hollywood's dramatic sensibilities." it asks scientists to protect their research funding and institutions at all costs, no matter how just the cause. and if you think you have to get involved in something, even if it's an emergency, try finding an activist group or an ngo, and obtain the full support of the academic community — whatever that means — before you get involved. not one mention of our moral and professional obligation of preventing harm to the public, or the fact that we have all this expertise, resources and, for some, even tenure to, you know, accomplish this task. i'm not saying every scientist should be an activist. there are real and sometimes very painful consequences of speaking up. but to denounce this idea, this possibility so completely so that you can protect research funding, simply screams of self-serving cowardice, and these are not the ideals we would want to pass to our students.and so you may think, "ok, all this sounds great, but you'll never completely change organizational cultures, or imbibe mindsets in students and professionals to look at their work as a public good — science in service to the public." maybe so. but could a big reason for that be that we are not training our students right? because if you look closely, our education system today is focused more on creating what ex-yale professor bill deresiewicz calls "excellent sheep" — young people who are smart and ambitious, and yet somehow risk-averse, timid, directionless and, sometimes, full of themselves.now, kids ... you know, we fell in love with science when we were kids, and yet we somehow spend most of our time during high school and college just jumping through hoops and doing things so that we can polish our résumé instead of sitting down and reflecting on what we want to do and who we want to be. and so, the markers of empathy in our college graduates have been dropping dramatically in the past two decades, while those of narcissism are on the rise.there is also a growing culture of disengagement between engineering students and the public. we are trained to build bridges and solve complex problems but not how to think or live or be a citizen of this world. my undergraduate years were explicit job preparation, and i cannot tell you how suffocating and painful it was at times. and so, some people think the solution to great engineers, to great scientists, is more technical training. maybe so. but where are the discussions on ethical decision-making, or building character, or discerning right from wrong?consider this project that i deeply love and admire. it's called, "heroic imagination project." a brainchild of dr. phil zimbardo, famous for the stanford prison experiment, this program seeks to train school-going children around the world to look at themselves as heroes-in-waiting, or heroes-in-training. so, these young minds work over time to develop skills and virtues so that when the opportunity comes, no matter what that opportunity be, to stand up and do the right thing. in other words, anyone can be a hero.think about that idea for a second. why don't we teach science and engineering like that — where heroism and public service are seen as key values, because indeed, it's often heroism that is not only the antidote to public indifference, but also to systemic evil like we saw in flint.and so, dream with me what a 21st-century scientist slash engineer could look like: individuals who are driven to master the sciences so that they can serve society, and are also aware of the tremendous power their knowledge and decisions have; folks who are developing their moral courage at all times, and who realize that conflict and controversy are not necessarily bad things if our ultimate loyalty is to the public and the planet.these are the people who will stand up like we did in flint — not to be saviors or heroes in the media, but altruistic and fundamentally good actors that you and i can trust. imagine fostering such a public-focused mindset in classes, on service trips and during activities during college or even high school, so that these young minds will hold onto those ideals when they actually enter the real world, whether that be consulting, academia, policy making — or even becoming the president of a country.some of mankind's greatest challenges lie ahead of us; contaminated drinking water is just one example. we could definitely use more — nay, we desperately need more — compassionate upstanders and public-focused scientists and engineers who will strive to the do right thing, and not be easy to manage.thank you. <title = "Why the only future worth building includes everyone">
<tags = "['Christianity', 'children', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'compassion', 'faith', 'future', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'love', 'morality', 'peace', 'refugees', 'religion', 'social change', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Bishop of Rome">
[his holiness pope francis filmed in vatican city first shown at ted2017]good evening – or, good morning, i am not sure what time it is there. regardless of the hour, i am thrilled to be participating in your conference. i very much like its title – "the future you" – because, while looking at tomorrow, it invites us to open a dialogue today, to look at the future through a "you." "the future you:" the future is made of yous, it is made of encounters, because life flows through our relations with others. quite a few years of life have strengthened my conviction that each and everyone's existence is deeply tied to that of others: life is not time merely passing by, life is about interactions.as i meet, or lend an ear to those who are sick, to the migrants who face terrible hardships in search of a brighter future, to prison inmates who carry a hell of pain inside their hearts, and to those, many of them young, who cannot find a job, i often find myself wondering: "why them and not me?" i, myself, was born in a family of migrants; my father, my grandparents, like many other italians, left for argentina and met the fate of those who are left with nothing. i could have very well ended up among today's "discarded" people. and that's why i always ask myself, deep in my heart: "why them and not me?"first and foremost, i would love it if this meeting could help to remind us that we all need each other, none of us is an island, an autonomous and independent "i," separated from the other, and we can only build the future by standing together, including everyone. we don’t think about it often, but everything is connected, and we need to restore our connections to a healthy state. even the harsh judgment i hold in my heart against my brother or my sister, the open wound that was never cured, the offense that was never forgiven, the rancor that is only going to hurt me, are all instances of a fight that i carry within me, a flare deep in my heart that needs to be extinguished before it goes up in flames, leaving only ashes behind.many of us, nowadays, seem to believe that a happy future is something impossible to achieve. while such concerns must be taken very seriously, they are not invincible. they can be overcome when we don't lock our door to the outside world. happiness can only be discovered as a gift of harmony between the whole and each single component. even science – and you know it better than i do – points to an understanding of reality as a place where every element connects and interacts with everything else.and this brings me to my second message. how wonderful would it be if the growth of scientific and technological innovation would come along with more equality and social inclusion. how wonderful would it be, while we discover faraway planets, to rediscover the needs of the brothers and sisters orbiting around us. how wonderful would it be if solidarity, this beautiful and, at times, inconvenient word, were not simply reduced to social work, and became, instead, the default attitude in political, economic and scientific choices, as well as in the relationships among individuals, peoples and countries. only by educating people to a true solidarity will we be able to overcome the "culture of waste," which doesn't concern only food and goods but, first and foremost, the people who are cast aside by our techno-economic systems which, without even realizing it, are now putting products at their core, instead of people.solidarity is a term that many wish to erase from the dictionary. solidarity, however, is not an automatic mechanism. it cannot be programmed or controlled. it is a free response born from the heart of each and everyone. yes, a free response! when one realizes that life, even in the middle of so many contradictions, is a gift, that love is the source and the meaning of life, how can they withhold their urge to do good to another fellow being?in order to do good, we need memory, we need courage and we need creativity. and i know that ted gathers many creative minds. yes, love does require a creative, concrete and ingenious attitude. good intentions and conventional formulas, so often used to appease our conscience, are not enough. let us help each other, all together, to remember that the other is not a statistic or a number. the other has a face. the "you" is always a real presence, a person to take care of.there is a parable jesus told to help us understand the difference between those who'd rather not be bothered and those who take care of the other. i am sure you have heard it before. it is the parable of the good samaritan. when jesus was asked: "who is my neighbor?" - namely, "who should i take care of?" - he told this story, the story of a man who had been assaulted, robbed, beaten and abandoned along a dirt road. upon seeing him, a priest and a levite, two very influential people of the time, walked past him without stopping to help. after a while, a samaritan, a very much despised ethnicity at the time, walked by. seeing the injured man lying on the ground, he did not ignore him as if he weren't even there. instead, he felt compassion for this man, which compelled him to act in a very concrete manner. he poured oil and wine on the wounds of the helpless man, brought him to a hostel and paid out of his pocket for him to be assisted.the story of the good samaritan is the story of today’s humanity. people's paths are riddled with suffering, as everything is centered around money, and things, instead of people. and often there is this habit, by people who call themselves "respectable," of not taking care of the others, thus leaving behind thousands of human beings, or entire populations, on the side of the road. fortunately, there are also those who are creating a new world by taking care of the other, even out of their own pockets. mother teresa actually said: "one cannot love, unless it is at their own expense."we have so much to do, and we must do it together. but how can we do that with all the evil we breathe every day? thank god, no system can nullify our desire to open up to the good, to compassion and to our capacity to react against evil, all of which stem from deep within our hearts. now you might tell me, "sure, these are beautiful words, but i am not the good samaritan, nor mother teresa of calcutta." on the contrary: we are precious, each and every one of us. each and every one of us is irreplaceable in the eyes of god. through the darkness of today's conflicts, each and every one of us can become a bright candle, a reminder that light will overcome darkness, and never the other way around.to christians, the future does have a name, and its name is hope. feeling hopeful does not mean to be optimistically naïve and ignore the tragedy humanity is facing. hope is the virtue of a heart that doesn't lock itself into darkness, that doesn't dwell on the past, does not simply get by in the present, but is able to see a tomorrow. hope is the door that opens onto the future. hope is a humble, hidden seed of life that, with time, will develop into a large tree. it is like some invisible yeast that allows the whole dough to grow, that brings flavor to all aspects of life. and it can do so much, because a tiny flicker of light that feeds on hope is enough to shatter the shield of darkness. a single individual is enough for hope to exist, and that individual can be you. and then there will be another "you," and another "you," and it turns into an "us." and so, does hope begin when we have an "us?" no. hope began with one "you." when there is an "us," there begins a revolution.the third message i would like to share today is, indeed, about revolution: the revolution of tenderness. and what is tenderness? it is the love that comes close and becomes real. it is a movement that starts from our heart and reaches the eyes, the ears and the hands. tenderness means to use our eyes to see the other, our ears to hear the other, to listen to the children, the poor, those who are afraid of the future. to listen also to the silent cry of our common home, of our sick and polluted earth. tenderness means to use our hands and our heart to comfort the other, to take care of those in need.tenderness is the language of the young children, of those who need the other. a child’s love for mom and dad grows through their touch, their gaze, their voice, their tenderness. i like when i hear parents talk to their babies, adapting to the little child, sharing the same level of communication. this is tenderness: being on the same level as the other. god himself descended into jesus to be on our level. this is the same path the good samaritan took. this is the path that jesus himself took. he lowered himself, he lived his entire human existence practicing the real, concrete language of love.yes, tenderness is the path of choice for the strongest, most courageous men and women. tenderness is not weakness; it is fortitude. it is the path of solidarity, the path of humility. please, allow me to say it loud and clear: the more powerful you are, the more your actions will have an impact on people, the more responsible you are to act humbly. if you don’t, your power will ruin you, and you will ruin the other. there is a saying in argentina: "power is like drinking gin on an empty stomach." you feel dizzy, you get drunk, you lose your balance, and you will end up hurting yourself and those around you, if you don’t connect your power with humility and tenderness. through humility and concrete love, on the other hand, power – the highest, the strongest one – becomes a service, a force for good.the future of humankind isn't exclusively in the hands of politicians, of great leaders, of big companies. yes, they do hold an enormous responsibility. but the future is, most of all, in the hands of those people who recognize the other as a "you" and themselves as part of an "us." we all need each other. and so, please, think of me as well with tenderness, so that i can fulfill the task i have been given for the good of the other, of each and every one, of all of you, of all of us. thank you.<title = "On tennis, love and motherhood">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'children', 'family', 'gender', 'interview', 'journalism', 'life', 'love', 'media', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'race', 'relationships', 'social media', 'sports', 'women']">
<occupation = "Athlete">
gayle king: have a seat, serena williams, or should we say, have a seat, mom.(cheers)so no doubt, you guys are like me. you saw the release of serena in that great yellow bathing suit last week and when i saw it, all i could think of was, "gosh, why couldn't she have waited til we sat onstage for ted?" i was very selfish, i know. so i asked you about that picture, and you said nobody was supposed to see that picture. what do you mean?serena williams: well, actually, it was an accident. i was on vacation, just taking some time for myself, and i have this thing where i've been checking my status and taking pictures every week to see how far along i'm going —gk: and sharing it with friends, maybe?sw: no, actually i have just been saving it, and i didn't really tell a lot of people, to be quite honest, and i'd been saving it, and you know how social media is, you press the wrong button and — gk: and there it was.sw: so 30 minutes later — my phone doesn't ring that much — and 30 minutes later, i missed like four calls, and i'm like, that's weird, and then i picked it up and i was like, oh no. but it was a good moment. i was gonna wait literally just five or six more days — that's ok.gk: i know, because it was weird, serena, because it only said 20 weeks, so it's not like there was a whole lot of information on it.sw: exactly, so that's what i've been doing all this time. i've been just tracking it. 18, 19 — every week i'd just take a picture and save it, and i've been so good about it, and this was the one time that i slipped.gk: there you go. well, congratulations.sw: yes, thank you.gk: it really is ok. when you heard the news, were you excited? were you afraid? were you worried? that you were pregnant, i mean.sw: so i heard it two days before the beginning of the australian open, which is one of the biggest grand slams.gk: you found out two days before?sw: yeah, so it was two days before, and i knew. i was nervous. i wasn't quite sure what to think, but i just knew that at that moment it was really important for me to just focus right there at the australian open, and i was definitely not sure what to do. i was like, can i play? i know it's very dangerous, maybe, sometimes in the first 12 weeks or so, so i had a lot of questions.gk: but not only did you play, ms. williams, you won.(cheers)sw: yeah. may i just say, 23 grand slams to you.sw: thank you. gk: while pregnant!sw: well, i was looking for another handicap, so ... no.gk: did you play differently that game, knowing you were pregnant?sw: i did. it wasn't very easy. you hear all these stories about people when they're pregnant, they get sick and they get tired.gk: have you had morning sickness?sw: no, i've been so fortunate and so i haven't. but they get really tired and they get really stressed out, and i had to really take all that energy, put it in a paper bag, so to say, and throw it away, because i really felt like i didn't have time to deal with any extra emotions, any extra anything, because pregnant or not, no one knew, and i was supposed to win that tournament as i am every tournament that i show up. i am expected to win, and if i don't win, it's actually much bigger news.gk: yeah, when you don't win, that's a big story.sw: yes, so for me, i had to really take anything negative and any emotions that i was feeling at that point and kind of just bottle them up and really figure out what the next step for me to do was.gk: you have a lot of support. you have a lot of love. even when i was coming here, people stopped me at the airport. i was saying to the flight attendant, the pilot, "guess where i'm going?" they said, "oh my god, we're so glad she's pregnant." but then you always have these cranky yankees. on the way over here, somebody was telling me about ilie nastase, who said some very unkind, inappropriate, dare i say racial things. you have responded to him. i'm not even going to dignify what he said, but you responded. why did you respond?sw: well, i think there are very inappropriate comments, and not only that, i've been really supportive of my peers and the people that i've worked with. i've been a pro for almost 20 years, and so for me, it's really important to hold women up, and it's something that these young women, they'll come to the locker room, they'll want to take pictures with me, and for me, it's just like, i want to be able to be a good leader and a good example for them. so not only — not only did he have rude things to say about me and my peers, i felt it was important for us to stand up for each other and to stand up for myself. and at that point it was really important for me to say, like, i'm not afraid, i'm not going anywhere, but this is inappropriate, and there's time and there's a place for everything. and that really wasn't the time and the place.gk: we cut the part where you said you're not going anywhere, because you'll be 36 in september. baby's coming, 36. and your coach said age is always important, but in tennis it's very important, but he has no doubt that you're coming back. have you thought, am i coming back? will i take some time off? i know the women on the tour are saying, "how long does it take to have a baby? two years will she be gone?" what are you thinking?sw: well, i'm always trying to defy the odds, you know, so for me everything is really mental. i definitely plan on coming back. i'm not done yet. i'm really inspired by my sister. she's a year older than me, and that's something that — if she's still playing, i know i can play. and there's so many — roger federer, he's a little bit older than me and he's still winning everything, so i'm like, i know i can do that too. so that's been so inspiring to me, especially recently, and i know that it's something i want to do. and my story is definitely not over yet. i was talking to my coach about it, and we were talking about how this is just a new part of my life, and my baby's going to be in the stands and hopefully cheering for me, not crying too much.gk: no, you wrote a beautiful letter to your baby yesterday that you said — from the oldest mommy to the youngest one, to the oldest, to the youngest, i can't wait for you to get here. a lot of people feel that. i saw you about a year ago, because i think about your life, serena. you've had three life-changing things in a six-month time: pregnant, huge win, fell in love. and when i saw you last year, i was saying, "how's your love life? da da da." you said, "i met a guy. he's a nerdy, kinda geeky guy. you won't know who he is." i said, "what's his name?"sw: i remember talking to you about that, yes.gk: and you said, "alexis ohanian." i said, "i know him!" he's awesome. but i would never put you with a nerdy geek, and you said, you neither.sw: i'm going to be honest with you, i didn't either, but it's been the best thing for me.gk: the best thing why? does that look like a nerdy geek? look at the shirt. no, he's a very nice guy.sw: you can tell he's into technology.gk: he's a very, very nice guy. i like him very much. so how did he succeed when others have failed? how was he the one that you knew, this is the one for me?sw: well, i'm not going to say that, but ... gk: say it, serena, say it!sw: well ... yes. gk: but you know what i mean.sw: he is very loving and he's very kind, and my mom says he's very considerate, and when she said that to me, i was like, you know, he really is, and it's the little things that really make a huge difference in life.gk: like?sw: something simple. my fashion company, we have a show every year, so in our show last year, i was running around like crazy, because i do everything for the show, and everything for it, so i was running around like crazy, and he, it was a simple gesture of this shirt that he had, and he just wanted to make sure that i had the same one, and it was — it's a weird story. it was better in person, i promise.gk: was it a wonderful proposal? or was it a beyoncé song? "if you like it then you ought to put a ring on it"? were you feeling pressure to get married? did you know it was coming?sw: yeah, i actually never felt pressure to get married and i can't say i'm the marrying type of person. i really love my life. i love my freedom. i heard that kind of changes. but i love everything that i do, and i love my career, and i always felt like i didn't want anything to interfere with that. i've actually been so career-oriented and in fact, when he proposed, i was almost angry. not almost. i was angry, because it was right in the middle of my training season, and i said, "i gotta win the australian open. i can't fly to rome." because he wanted to take me to rome, and i said, "i can't. i gotta win." but that's how focused i was.gk: this is a girl that says, "no, i can't go to rome." ok.sw: but i was really focused on reaching my goals and i knew at that point there was one player that i wanted to pass. i wanted to pass steffi graf's record, and that really meant a lot to me, and when i put my mind to something, i really am determined to reach it no matter what.gk: you know, you said that for you — i've heard you say that winning is addictive to you.sw: it is.gk: what do you mean?sw: i feel like winning for me is superaddictive. i feel like once you experience it, you always want to get that feeling again, and when i won my first championship, i was only 17 years old, but i never forgot that feeling, and i feel like every time i win one, i want to reach that feeling of your first championship. there's really no feeling in the world like that. and it's like, all these years of training and being a little kid and playing, and then winning is a wonderful experience. so for me i've always felt like i loved that feeling, and obviously i don't like the feeling of losing. i feel like —gk: no, in fact, people close to you say you're a very bad loser.sw: i'm not the best loser.gk: that you're very, very, very bad. listen, no athlete, no champion likes to lose. i get that. but they say when it comes to losing, you are very, very, very bad at it. sw: i'm number one at losing too, so you know, that's all i can say. gk: i'm always curious about the dynamic between you and venus, because everybody that knows you and has followed the story knows that you two are very close, and you always bring your a game in whatever you do, but i often wonder, when you're playing her, do you bring your a- game because you want to do something for her or do you bring your a++ game because you want to crush her. is it harder for you playing her or easier?sw: well, playing venus is like playing myself, because we grew up playing each other, we grew up practicing together. and it was something that has been difficult, because she's my toughest opponent. she's tall, she's fast, she hits hard like me, she serves like me. it's really like playing a wall.gk: she knows you.sw: she knows where i'm hitting the ball before i hit it, so it's something that is not very easy, but it's really about, when i go out there, i really have to shut down my mind and i have to say to myself, "you know what? i'm just playing a great player, but today i have to be better. i don't care who it is, if it's my sister or it's my friend, today is the day i have to show up and i have to be better and i have to want it more than anyone else at this moment anywhere on this world."gk: so never on the court do you fall back for venus? because, you know, it was always venus and serena.sw: yes.gk: and now baby sister has surpassed older sister. do you feel guilt about that? do you feel joy in that? is that a difficult position for you?sw: i don't feel anything in there. in my life, it still and forever is always going to be venus and serena. she's really love of my life, she's my best friend, she's my soul mate. i mean — there's pictures of her pushing me, really low-quality pictures or else i would have shared them, of her pushing me in a stroller on a tennis court, and she always took care of me. i used to spend all of my allowance money on the ice cream truck and stuff, and she would take her money and give it to me at school and make sure i had something to eat and she would go without, and that's the kind of person she actually is since i've always known her. so we always have this incredible respect for each other and this incredible love, and i think it's important for people to realize you can be successful but you can still have a wonderful relationship. on the court we are mortal enemies, but the second we shake hands, we are best friends again. and if i lose, it might be a day later for me, but for venus — gk: there's never a time on the court where you hit the ball and say, "that's for seventh grade when you did the blah blah blah"? you never have any moment like that?sw: i feel like she should have those moments, because she's never done anything bad to me, but i'm the youngest. i'm the younger sister.gk: serena, she's never done anything bad to you? really? i have three sisters. i can think of some stuff i've done bad.sw: unless she brainwashed me to forget them.gk: no, but the love you have for her i know is very pure. i know that.sw: yes. gk: i know that.sw: we were always brought up to be superclose, and we are incredibly close. not only her. i have three other sisters as well, and we were always so close.gk: so before a big match, the two of you don't get together and say, look, we're going to go out there and — there's nothing?sw: well, it's funny. before the australian open, we were in the locker room together, and i always pick on her, so i pulled out my camera while she was changing. i started taking pictures of her, which is totally inappropriate, but she was so mad at me. she's like, "serena, stop!" and i was just laughing at her. but that's the kind of relationship that we have, and like i said, the second we step on the court, it was like, we were definitely mortal enemies, but the second we stepped off, and moments before, we're just — it is what it is, because at the end of the day, she'll always be my sister. i'm not going to play australia in — well, who knows, i've been playing forever, but i don't think i'll be playing in 50 years, say? let's be safe and say 50 years.gk: i don't know, serena. there's never been anybody like you. when you think about it, never been anybody who has intersected gender and race the way you have, the dominance that you have and the scrutiny that you have. and when you were growing up, did you say, "i want to be like that"? because now little girls are looking at you saying, "i want to be like that." who was the "i want to be like that" for you?sw: well, it's interesting, and i'm glad you brought that up. for me, when i grew up, i always wanted to be the best, and i said, if you want to be the best, you've got to emulate the best. so when i started to go on tour when i was really young, i would see steffi graf, i would see monica seles, and i would even see pete sampras, and i would see what they did, and i noticed that steffi and monica didn't really talk to a lot of the other players, and they kind of were on their own, and they were just so focused and i would see pete sampras, the technique that he did, and i was like, "i want to do that." so i did that, and i felt that to be the best, and if you want to be the best, you have to hang around people and you have to look at people that are the best, because you're not going to be the best if you're looking at someone that's not at the top level.gk: people say nobody works as hard as you.sw: i'm a very hard worker. gk: that's what i heard.sw: people say, "oh, she's talented, she's athletic." actually, i wasn't. i was really small for my age. i grew up when i got older, and i had to work really hard, and i think one of the reasons why i fight so hard and i work so hard is because i was really, really, really small.gk: yeah. you are no longer small.sw: no, i'm fully grown now. but i was small when i was really young for whatever reason. i think venus maybe ate all the wheaties.gk: you know, the other thing people talk about is your body. your body brings men and women to their knees. and i mean in a good way. a lot has been made about your body. it's a work of art, it's masculine, it's glorious, there's never been anything like it. did you have body issues when you were growing up? have you always been comfortable with your body?sw: it's interesting, because when you're a teenage female growing up in the public eye, it is a lot of scrutiny that you face, and as any female that's a teenager, i definitely was not comfortable in my body. i didn't like it. i didn't understand why i had muscles. and i stopped lifting weights. i was like, i'm not going to do this. but then after i won the us open, i realized that my body helped me reach goals that i wanted to reach, and i wanted to be happy with it, and i was so appreciative of it. i'm always healthy. i'm really fortunate and superblessed, and i felt like not only am i happy with my body, but i want other people and other young girls that have experienced what i've experienced to be happy with themselves. so whatever people say — masculine, whatever, too much, too little — i'm ok with it as long as i love myself. gk: i know you learn a lot from winning, but what have you learned from losing?sw: i hate to lose, but i think losing has brought me here today. the only reason i am who i am is because of my losses, and some of them are extremely painful, but i wouldn't take any of them away, because every time i lose, it takes a really long time for me to lose again because i learn so much from it. and i encourage everyone that i talk to — i'm like, listen, if you lose or if something happens — not in sports — in business or in school — learn from it. don't live in the past, live in the present, and don't make the same mistakes in the future. that's something that i always try to live by.gk: now you're planning a wedding and i want to know, is it a destination wedding in the catskills or poconos or are you going to do it in florida? what are you thinking? big or small?sw: we're thinking medium size. we don't want to do too big, but then we're like, ok, we can't say no to this person, this person. so we're thinking medium size and we're just thinking — my personality is a lot of fun. hopefully you can see that today. i'm not too serious.gk: and you like to dance. and the next chapter for serena williams is what?sw: oh, next for me. obviously i'm going to have a baby and i'm going to stay fit and kind of come back and play tennis and keep working on my fashion line. that'll be really fun.gk: do you know if it's a boy or girl?sw: i don't. i have a feeling of one or the other. it's a 50-50 chance, but i have a feeling.gk: gayle is a unisex name. whatever you and alexis decide, we are cheering you on!sw: thank you for that. gk: you're welcome. we are cheering you on, serena williams. sw: thank you so much.thank you guys. <title = "What you can do to prevent Alzheimer's">
<tags = "["Alzheimer's", 'aging', 'biomechanics', 'disease', 'future', 'genetics', 'health', 'medical research', 'mental health', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'science']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist, novelist">
how many people here would like to live to be at least 80 years old? yeah. i think we all have this hopeful expectation of living into old age. let's project out into the future, to your future "you's," and let's imagine that we're all 85. now, everyone look at two people. one of you probably has alzheimer's disease. alright, alright. and maybe you're thinking, "well, it won't be me." then, ok. you are a caregiver. so — so in some way, this terrifying disease is likely to affect us all.part of the fear around alzheimer's stems from the sense that there's nothing we can do about it. despite decades of research, we still have no disease-modifying treatment and no cure. so if we're lucky enough to live long enough, alzheimer's appears to be our brain's destiny.but maybe it doesn't have to be. what if i told you we could change these statistics, literally change our brain's destiny, without relying on a cure or advancements in medicine?let's begin by looking at what we currently understand about the neuroscience of alzheimer's. here's a picture of two neurons connecting. the point of connection, this space circled in red, is called the synapse. the synapse is where neurotransmitters are released. this is where signals are transmitted, where communication happens. this is where we think, feel, see, hear, desire ... and remember. and the synapse is where alzheimer's happens.let's zoom in on the synapse and look at a cartoon representation of what's going on. during the business of communicating information, in addition to releasing neurotransmitters like glutamate into the synapse, neurons also release a small peptide called amyloid beta. normally, amyloid beta is cleared away metabolized by microglia, the janitor cells of our brains. while the molecular causes of alzheimer's are still debated, most neuroscientists believe that the disease begins when amyloid beta begins to accumulate. too much is released, or not enough is cleared away, and the synapse begins to pile up with amyloid beta. and when this happens, it binds to itself, forming sticky aggregates called amyloid plaques.how many people here are 40 years old or older? you're afraid to admit it now. this initial step into the disease, this presence of amyloid plaques accumulating, can already be found in your brains. the only way we could be sure of this would be through a pet scan, because at this point, you are blissfully unaware. you're not showing any impairments in memory, language, or cognition ... yet. we think it takes at least 15 to 20 years of amyloid plaque accumulation before it reaches a tipping point, then triggering a molecular cascade that causes the clinical symptoms of the disease. prior to the tipping point, your lapses in memory might include things like, "why did i come in this room?" or "oh ... what's his name?" or "where did i put my keys?"now, before you all start freaking out again, because i know half of you did at least one of those in the last 24 hours — these are all normal kinds of forgetting. in fact, i would argue that these examples might not even involve your memory, because you didn't pay attention to where you put your keys in the first place. after the tipping point, the glitches in memory, language and cognition are different. instead of eventually finding your keys in your coat pocket or on the table by the door, you find them in the refrigerator, or you find them and you think, "what are these for?"so what happens when amyloid plaques accumulate to this tipping point? our microglia janitor cells become hyper-activated, releasing chemicals that cause inflammation and cellular damage. we think they might actually start clearing away the synapses themselves. a crucial neural transport protein called "tau" becomes hyperphosphorylated and twists itself into something called "tangles," which choke off the neurons from the inside. by mid-stage alzheimer's, we have massive inflammation and tangles and all-out war at the synapse and cell death.so if you were a scientist trying to cure this disease, at what point would you ideally want to intervene? many scientists are betting big on the simplest solution: keep amyloid plaques from reaching that tipping point, which means that drug discovery is largely focused on developing a compound that will prevent, eliminate, or reduce amyloid plaque accumulation. so the cure for alzheimer's will likely be a preventative medicine. we're going to have to take this pill before we reach that tipping point, before the cascade is triggered, before we start leaving our keys in the refrigerator. we think this is why, to date, these kinds of drugs have failed in clinical trials — not because the science wasn't sound, but because the people in these trials were already symptomatic. it was too late. think of amyloid plaques as a lit match. at the tipping point, the match sets fire to the forest. once the forest is ablaze, it doesn't do any good to blow out the match. you have to blow out the match before the forest catches fire.even before scientists sort this out, this information is actually really good news for us, because it turns out that the way we live can influence the accumulation of amyloid plaques. and so there are things we can do to keep us from reaching that tipping point.let's picture your risk of alzheimer's as a see-saw scale. we're going to pile risk factors on one arm, and when that arm hits the floor, you are symptomatic and diagnosed with alzheimer's. let's imagine you're 50 years old. you're not a spring chicken anymore, so you've accumulated some amyloid plaques with age. your scale is tipped a little bit.now let's look at your dna. we've all inherited our genes from our moms and our dads. some of these genes will increase our risk and some will decrease it. if you're like alice in "still alice," you've inherited a rare genetic mutation that cranks out amyloid beta, and this alone will tip your scale arm to the ground. but for most of us, the genes we inherit will only tip the arm a bit. for example, apoe4 is a gene variant that increases amyloid, but you can inherit a copy of apoe4 from mom and dad and still never get alzheimer's, which means that for most of us, our dna alone does not determine whether we get alzheimer's. so what does? we can't do anything about getting older or the genes we've inherited. so far, we haven't changed our brain's destiny.what about sleep? in slow-wave deep sleep, our glial cells rinse cerebral spinal fluid throughout our brains, clearing away metabolic waste that accumulated in our synapses while we were awake. deep sleep is like a power cleanse for the brain. but what happens if you shortchange yourself on sleep? many scientists believe that poor sleep hygiene might actually be a predictor of alzheimer's. a single night of sleep deprivation leads to an increase in amyloid beta. and amyloid accumulation has been shown to disrupt sleep, which in turn causes more amyloid to accumulate. and so now we have this positive feedback loop that's going to accelerate the tipping of that scale.what else? cardiovascular health. high blood pressure, diabetes, obesity, smoking, high cholesterol, have all been shown to increase our risk of developing alzheimer's. some autopsy studies have shown that as many as 80 percent of people with alzheimer's also had cardiovascular disease. aerobic exercise has been shown in many studies to decrease amyloid beta in animal models of the disease. so a heart-healthy mediterranean lifestyle and diet can help to counter the tipping of this scale.so there are many things we can do to prevent or delay the onset of alzheimer's. but let's say you haven't done any of them. let's say you're 65; there's alzheimer's in your family, so you've likely inherited a gene or two that tips your scale arm a bit; you've been burning the candle at both ends for years; you love bacon; and you don't run unless someone's chasing you. let's imagine that your amyloid plaques have reached that tipping point. your scale arm has crashed to the floor. you've tripped the cascade, setting fire to the forest, causing inflammation, tangles, and cell death. you should be symptomatic for alzheimer's. you should be having trouble finding words and keys and remembering what i said at the beginning of this talk. but you might not be.there's one more thing you can do to protect yourself from experiencing the symptoms of alzheimer's, even if you have the full-blown disease pathology ablaze in your brain. it has to do with neural plasticity and cognitive reserve. remember, the experience of having alzheimer's is ultimately a result of losing synapses. the average brain has over a hundred trillion synapses, which is fantastic; we've got a lot to work with. and this isn't a static number. we gain and lose synapses all the time, through a process called neural plasticity. every time we learn something new, we are creating and strengthening new neural connections, new synapses.in the nun study, 678 nuns, all over the age of 75 when the study began, were followed for more than two decades. they were regularly given physical checkups and cognitive tests, and when they died, their brains were all donated for autopsy. in some of these brains, scientists discovered something surprising. despite the presence of plaques and tangles and brain shrinkage — what appeared to be unquestionable alzheimer's — the nuns who had belonged to these brains showed no signs of having the disease while they were alive.how can this be? we think it's because these nuns had a high level of cognitive reserve, which is a way of saying that they had more functional synapses. people who have more years of formal education, who have a high degree of literacy, who engage regularly in mentally stimulating activities, all have more cognitive reserve. they have an abundance and a redundancy in neural connections. so even if they have a disease like alzheimer's compromising some of their synapses, they've got many extra backup connections, and this buffers them from noticing that anything is amiss.let's imagine a simplified example. let's say you only know one thing about a subject. let's say it's about me. you know that lisa genova wrote "still alice," and that's the only thing you know about me. you have that single neural connection, that one synapse. now imagine you have alzheimer's. you have plaques and tangles and inflammation and microglia devouring that synapse. now when someone asks you, "hey, who wrote 'still alice?'" you can't remember, because that synapse is either failing or gone. you've forgotten me forever.but what if you had learned more about me? let's say you learned four things about me. now imagine you have alzheimer's, and three of those synapses are damaged or destroyed. you still have a way to detour the wreckage. you can still remember my name. so we can be resilient to the presence of alzheimer's pathology through the recruitment of yet-undamaged pathways. and we create these pathways, this cognitive reserve, by learning new things. ideally, we want these new things to be as rich in meaning as possible, recruiting sight and sound and associations and emotion.so this really doesn't mean doing crossword puzzles. you don't want to simply retrieve information you've already learned, because this is like traveling down old, familiar streets, cruising neighborhoods you already know. you want to pave new neural roads. building an alzheimer's-resistant brain means learning to speak italian, meeting new friends, reading a book, or listening to a great ted talk.and if, despite all of this, you are someday diagnosed with alzheimer's, there are three lessons i've learned from my grandmother and the dozens of people i've come to know living with this disease. diagnosis doesn't mean you're dying tomorrow. keep living. you won't lose your emotional memory. you'll still be able to understand love and joy. you might not remember what i said five minutes ago, but you'll remember how i made you feel. and you are more than what you can remember.thank you. <title = "The future we're building -- and boring">
<tags = "['Mars', 'aircraft', 'business', 'cities', 'design', 'energy', 'engineering', 'entrepreneur', 'environment', 'exploration', 'future', 'global development', 'humanity', 'industrial design', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'invention', 'manufacturing', 'product design', 'science', 'social change', 'society', 'solar energy', 'technology', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Serial entrepreneur">
chris anderson: elon, hey, welcome back to ted. it's great to have you here.elon musk: thanks for having me.ca: so, in the next half hour or so, we're going to spend some time exploring your vision for what an exciting future might look like, which i guess makes the first question a little ironic: why are you boring?em: yeah. i ask myself that frequently. we're trying to dig a hole under la, and this is to create the beginning of what will hopefully be a 3d network of tunnels to alleviate congestion. so right now, one of the most soul-destroying things is traffic. it affects people in every part of the world. it takes away so much of your life. it's horrible. it's particularly horrible in la. ca: i think you've brought with you the first visualization that's been shown of this. can i show this?em: yeah, absolutely. so this is the first time — just to show what we're talking about. so a couple of key things that are important in having a 3d tunnel network. first of all, you have to be able to integrate the entrance and exit of the tunnel seamlessly into the fabric of the city. so by having an elevator, sort of a car skate, that's on an elevator, you can integrate the entrance and exits to the tunnel network just by using two parking spaces. and then the car gets on a skate. there's no speed limit here, so we're designing this to be able to operate at 200 kilometers an hour.ca: how much?em: 200 kilometers an hour, or about 130 miles per hour. so you should be able to get from, say, westwood to lax in six minutes — five, six minutes. ca: so possibly, initially done, it's like on a sort of toll road-type basis.em: yeah.ca: which, i guess, alleviates some traffic from the surface streets as well.em: so, i don't know if people noticed it in the video, but there's no real limit to how many levels of tunnel you can have. you can go much further deep than you can go up. the deepest mines are much deeper than the tallest buildings are tall, so you can alleviate any arbitrary level of urban congestion with a 3d tunnel network. this is a very important point. so a key rebuttal to the tunnels is that if you add one layer of tunnels, that will simply alleviate congestion, it will get used up, and then you'll be back where you started, back with congestion. but you can go to any arbitrary number of tunnels, any number of levels.ca: but people — seen traditionally, it's incredibly expensive to dig, and that would block this idea.em: yeah. well, they're right. to give you an example, the la subway extension, which is — i think it's a two-and-a-half mile extension that was just completed for two billion dollars. so it's roughly a billion dollars a mile to do the subway extension in la. and this is not the highest utility subway in the world. so yeah, it's quite difficult to dig tunnels normally. i think we need to have at least a tenfold improvement in the cost per mile of tunneling.ca: and how could you achieve that?em: actually, if you just do two things, you can get to approximately an order of magnitude improvement, and i think you can go beyond that. so the first thing to do is to cut the tunnel diameter by a factor of two or more. so a single road lane tunnel according to regulations has to be 26 feet, maybe 28 feet in diameter to allow for crashes and emergency vehicles and sufficient ventilation for combustion engine cars. but if you shrink that diameter to what we're attempting, which is 12 feet, which is plenty to get an electric skate through, you drop the diameter by a factor of two and the cross-sectional area by a factor of four, and the tunneling cost scales with the cross-sectional area. so that's roughly a half-order of magnitude improvement right there. then tunneling machines currently tunnel for half the time, then they stop, and then the rest of the time is putting in reinforcements for the tunnel wall. so if you design the machine instead to do continuous tunneling and reinforcing, that will give you a factor of two improvement. combine that and that's a factor of eight. also these machines are far from being at their power or thermal limits, so you can jack up the power to the machine substantially. i think you can get at least a factor of two, maybe a factor of four or five improvement on top of that. so i think there's a fairly straightforward series of steps to get somewhere in excess of an order of magnitude improvement in the cost per mile, and our target actually is — we've got a pet snail called gary, this is from gary the snail from "south park," i mean, sorry, "spongebob squarepants." so gary is capable of — currently he's capable of going 14 times faster than a tunnel-boring machine. ca: you want to beat gary.em: we want to beat gary. he's not a patient little fellow, and that will be victory. victory is beating the snail.ca: but a lot of people imagining, dreaming about future cities, they imagine that actually the solution is flying cars, drones, etc. you go aboveground. why isn't that a better solution? you save all that tunneling cost.em: right. i'm in favor of flying things. obviously, i do rockets, so i like things that fly. this is not some inherent bias against flying things, but there is a challenge with flying cars in that they'll be quite noisy, the wind force generated will be very high. let's just say that if something's flying over your head, a whole bunch of flying cars going all over the place, that is not an anxiety-reducing situation. you don't think to yourself, "well, i feel better about today." you're thinking, "did they service their hubcap, or is it going to come off and guillotine me?" things like that.ca: so you've got this vision of future cities with these rich, 3d networks of tunnels underneath. is there a tie-in here with hyperloop? could you apply these tunnels to use for this hyperloop idea you released a few years ago.em: yeah, so we've been sort of puttering around with the hyperloop stuff for a while. we built a hyperloop test track adjacent to spacex, just for a student competition, to encourage innovative ideas in transport. and it actually ends up being the biggest vacuum chamber in the world after the large hadron collider, by volume. so it was quite fun to do that, but it was kind of a hobby thing, and then we think we might — so we've built a little pusher car to push the student pods, but we're going to try seeing how fast we can make the pusher go if it's not pushing something. so we're cautiously optimistic we'll be able to be faster than the world's fastest bullet train even in a .8-mile stretch.ca: whoa. good brakes.em: yeah, i mean, it's — yeah. it's either going to smash into tiny pieces or go quite fast.ca: but you can picture, then, a hyperloop in a tunnel running quite long distances.em: exactly. and looking at tunneling technology, it turns out that in order to make a tunnel, you have to — in order to seal against the water table, you've got to typically design a tunnel wall to be good to about five or six atmospheres. so to go to vacuum is only one atmosphere, or near-vacuum. so actually, it sort of turns out that automatically, if you build a tunnel that is good enough to resist the water table, it is automatically capable of holding vacuum.ca: huh.em: so, yeah.ca: and so you could actually picture, what kind of length tunnel is in elon's future to running hyperloop?em: i think there's no real length limit. you could dig as much as you want. i think if you were to do something like a dc-to-new york hyperloop, i think you'd probably want to go underground the entire way because it's a high-density area. you're going under a lot of buildings and houses, and if you go deep enough, you cannot detect the tunnel. sometimes people think, well, it's going to be pretty annoying to have a tunnel dug under my house. like, if that tunnel is dug more than about three or four tunnel diameters beneath your house, you will not be able to detect it being dug at all. in fact, if you're able to detect the tunnel being dug, whatever device you are using, you can get a lot of money for that device from the israeli military, who is trying to detect tunnels from hamas, and from the us customs and border patrol that try and detect drug tunnels. so the reality is that earth is incredibly good at absorbing vibrations, and once the tunnel depth is below a certain level, it is undetectable. maybe if you have a very sensitive seismic instrument, you might be able to detect it.ca: so you've started a new company to do this called the boring company. very nice. very funny. em: what's funny about that? ca: how much of your time is this?em: it's maybe ... two or three percent.ca: you've bought a hobby. this is what an elon musk hobby looks like. em: i mean, it really is, like — this is basically interns and people doing it part time. we bought some second-hand machinery. it's kind of puttering along, but it's making good progress, so —ca: so an even bigger part of your time is being spent on electrifying cars and transport through tesla. is one of the motivations for the tunneling project the realization that actually, in a world where cars are electric and where they're self-driving, there may end up being more cars on the roads on any given hour than there are now?em: yeah, exactly. a lot of people think that when you make cars autonomous, they'll be able to go faster and that will alleviate congestion. and to some degree that will be true, but once you have shared autonomy where it's much cheaper to go by car and you can go point to point, the affordability of going in a car will be better than that of a bus. like, it will cost less than a bus ticket. so the amount of driving that will occur will be much greater with shared autonomy, and actually traffic will get far worse.ca: you started tesla with the goal of persuading the world that electrification was the future of cars, and a few years ago, people were laughing at you. now, not so much.em: ok. i don't know. i don't know.ca: but isn't it true that pretty much every auto manufacturer has announced serious electrification plans for the short- to medium-term future?em: yeah. yeah. i think almost every automaker has some electric vehicle program. they vary in seriousness. some are very serious about transitioning entirely to electric, and some are just dabbling in it. and some, amazingly, are still pursuing fuel cells, but i think that won't last much longer.ca: but isn't there a sense, though, elon, where you can now just declare victory and say, you know, "we did it." let the world electrify, and you go on and focus on other stuff?em: yeah. i intend to stay with tesla as far into the future as i can imagine, and there are a lot of exciting things that we have coming. obviously the model 3 is coming soon. we'll be unveiling the tesla semi truck.ca: ok, we're going to come to this. so model 3, it's supposed to be coming in july-ish.em: yeah, it's looking quite good for starting production in july.ca: wow. one of the things that people are so excited about is the fact that it's got autopilot. and you put out this video a while back showing what that technology would look like.em: yeah.ca: there's obviously autopilot in model s right now. what are we seeing here?em: yeah, so this is using only cameras and gps. so there's no lidar or radar being used here. this is just using passive optical, which is essentially what a person uses. the whole road system is meant to be navigated with passive optical, or cameras, and so once you solve cameras or vision, then autonomy is solved. if you don't solve vision, it's not solved. so that's why our focus is so heavily on having a vision neural net that's very effective for road conditions.ca: right. many other people are going the lidar route. you want cameras plus radar is most of it.em: you can absolutely be superhuman with just cameras. like, you can probably do it ten times better than humans would, just cameras.ca: so the new cars being sold right now have eight cameras in them. they can't yet do what that showed. when will they be able to?em: i think we're still on track for being able to go cross-country from la to new york by the end of the year, fully autonomous.ca: ok, so by the end of the year, you're saying, someone's going to sit in a tesla without touching the steering wheel, tap in "new york," off it goes.em: yeah.ca: won't ever have to touch the wheel — by the end of 2017.em: yeah. essentially, november or december of this year, we should be able to go all the way from a parking lot in california to a parking lot in new york, no controls touched at any point during the entire journey. ca: amazing. but part of that is possible because you've already got a fleet of teslas driving all these roads. you're accumulating a huge amount of data of that national road system.em: yes, but the thing that will be interesting is that i'm actually fairly confident it will be able to do that route even if you change the route dynamically. so, it's fairly easy — if you say i'm going to be really good at one specific route, that's one thing, but it should be able to go, really be very good, certainly once you enter a highway, to go anywhere on the highway system in a given country. so it's not sort of limited to la to new york. we could change it and make it seattle-florida, that day, in real time. so you were going from la to new york. now go from la to toronto.ca: so leaving aside regulation for a second, in terms of the technology alone, the time when someone will be able to buy one of your cars and literally just take the hands off the wheel and go to sleep and wake up and find that they've arrived, how far away is that, to do that safely?em: i think that's about two years. so the real trick of it is not how do you make it work say 99.9 percent of the time, because, like, if a car crashes one in a thousand times, then you're probably still not going to be comfortable falling asleep. you shouldn't be, certainly. it's never going to be perfect. no system is going to be perfect, but if you say it's perhaps — the car is unlikely to crash in a hundred lifetimes, or a thousand lifetimes, then people are like, ok, wow, if i were to live a thousand lives, i would still most likely never experience a crash, then that's probably ok.ca: to sleep. i guess the big concern of yours is that people may actually get seduced too early to think that this is safe, and that you'll have some horrible incident happen that puts things back.em: well, i think that the autonomy system is likely to at least mitigate the crash, except in rare circumstances. the thing to appreciate about vehicle safety is this is probabilistic. i mean, there's some chance that any time a human driver gets in a car, that they will have an accident that is their fault. it's never zero. so really the key threshold for autonomy is how much better does autonomy need to be than a person before you can rely on it?ca: but once you get literally safe hands-off driving, the power to disrupt the whole industry seems massive, because at that point you've spoken of people being able to buy a car, drops you off at work, and then you let it go and provide a sort of uber-like service to other people, earn you money, maybe even cover the cost of your lease of that car, so you can kind of get a car for free. is that really likely?em: yeah. absolutely this is what will happen. so there will be a shared autonomy fleet where you buy your car and you can choose to use that car exclusively, you could choose to have it be used only by friends and family, only by other drivers who are rated five star, you can choose to share it sometimes but not other times. that's 100 percent what will occur. it's just a question of when.ca: wow. so you mentioned the semi and i think you're planning to announce this in september, but i'm curious whether there's anything you could show us today?em: i will show you a teaser shot of the truck. it's alive.ca: ok.em: that's definitely a case where we want to be cautious about the autonomy features. yeah. ca: we can't see that much of it, but it doesn't look like just a little friendly neighborhood truck. it looks kind of badass. what sort of semi is this?em: so this is a heavy duty, long-range semitruck. so it's the highest weight capability and with long range. so essentially it's meant to alleviate the heavy-duty trucking loads. and this is something which people do not today think is possible. they think the truck doesn't have enough power or it doesn't have enough range, and then with the tesla semi we want to show that no, an electric truck actually can out-torque any diesel semi. and if you had a tug-of-war competition, the tesla semi will tug the diesel semi uphill. ca: that's pretty cool. and short term, these aren't driverless. these are going to be trucks that truck drivers want to drive.em: yes. so what will be really fun about this is you have a flat torque rpm curve with an electric motor, whereas with a diesel motor or any kind of internal combustion engine car, you've got a torque rpm curve that looks like a hill. so this will be a very spry truck. you can drive this around like a sports car. there's no gears. it's, like, single speed.ca: there's a great movie to be made here somewhere. i don't know what it is and i don't know that it ends well, but it's a great movie. em: it's quite bizarre test-driving. when i was driving the test prototype for the first truck. it's really weird, because you're driving around and you're just so nimble, and you're in this giant truck.ca: wait, you've already driven a prototype?em: yeah, i drove it around the parking lot, and i was like, this is crazy.ca: wow. this is no vaporware.em: it's just like, driving this giant truck and making these mad maneuvers.ca: this is cool. ok, from a really badass picture to a kind of less badass picture. this is just a cute house from "desperate housewives" or something. what on earth is going on here?em: well, this illustrates the picture of the future that i think is how things will evolve. you've got an electric car in the driveway. if you look in between the electric car and the house, there are actually three powerwalls stacked up against the side of the house, and then that house roof is a solar roof. so that's an actual solar glass roof.ca: ok.em: that's a picture of a real — well, admittedly, it's a real fake house. that's a real fake house. ca: so these roof tiles, some of them have in them basically solar power, the ability to —em: yeah. solar glass tiles where you can adjust the texture and the color to a very fine-grained level, and then there's sort of microlouvers in the glass, such that when you're looking at the roof from street level or close to street level, all the tiles look the same whether there is a solar cell behind it or not. so you have an even color from the ground level. if you were to look at it from a helicopter, you would be actually able to look through and see that some of the glass tiles have a solar cell behind them and some do not. you can't tell from street level.ca: you put them in the ones that are likely to see a lot of sun, and that makes these roofs super affordable, right? they're not that much more expensive than just tiling the roof.em: yeah. we're very confident that the cost of the roof plus the cost of electricity — a solar glass roof will be less than the cost of a normal roof plus the cost of electricity. so in other words, this will be economically a no-brainer, we think it will look great, and it will last — we thought about having the warranty be infinity, but then people thought, well, that might sound like were just talking rubbish, but actually this is toughened glass. well after the house has collapsed and there's nothing there, the glass tiles will still be there. ca: i mean, this is cool. so you're rolling this out in a couple week's time, i think, with four different roofing types.em: yeah, we're starting off with two, two initially, and the second two will be introduced early next year.ca: and what's the scale of ambition here? how many houses do you believe could end up having this type of roofing?em: i think eventually almost all houses will have a solar roof. the thing is to consider the time scale here to be probably on the order of 40 or 50 years. so on average, a roof is replaced every 20 to 25 years. but you don't start replacing all roofs immediately. but eventually, if you say were to fast-forward to say 15 years from now, it will be unusual to have a roof that does not have solar.ca: is there a mental model thing that people don't get here that because of the shift in the cost, the economics of solar power, most houses actually have enough sunlight on their roof pretty much to power all of their needs. if you could capture the power, it could pretty much power all their needs. you could go off-grid, kind of.em: it depends on where you are and what the house size is relative to the roof area, but it's a fair statement to say that most houses in the us have enough roof area to power all the needs of the house.ca: so the key to the economics of the cars, the semi, of these houses is the falling price of lithium-ion batteries, which you've made a huge bet on as tesla. in many ways, that's almost the core competency. and you've decided that to really, like, own that competency, you just have to build the world's largest manufacturing plant to double the world's supply of lithium-ion batteries, with this guy. what is this?em: yeah, so that's the gigafactory, progress so far on the gigafactory. eventually, you can sort of roughly see that there's sort of a diamond shape overall, and when it's fully done, it'll look like a giant diamond, or that's the idea behind it, and it's aligned on true north. it's a small detail.ca: and capable of producing, eventually, like a hundred gigawatt hours of batteries a year.em: a hundred gigawatt hours. we think probably more, but yeah.ca: and they're actually being produced right now.em: they're in production already. ca: you guys put out this video. i mean, is that speeded up?em: that's the slowed down version. ca: how fast does it actually go?em: well, when it's running at full speed, you can't actually see the cells without a strobe light. it's just blur. ca: one of your core ideas, elon, about what makes an exciting future is a future where we no longer feel guilty about energy. help us picture this. how many gigafactories, if you like, does it take to get us there?em: it's about a hundred, roughly. it's not 10, it's not a thousand. most likely a hundred.ca: see, i find this amazing. you can picture what it would take to move the world off this vast fossil fuel thing. it's like you're building one, it costs five billion dollars, or whatever, five to 10 billion dollars. like, it's kind of cool that you can picture that project. and you're planning to do, at tesla — announce another two this year.em: i think we'll announce locations for somewhere between two and four gigafactories later this year. yeah, probably four.ca: whoa. no more teasing from you for here? like — where, continent? you can say no.em: we need to address a global market.ca: ok. this is cool. i think we should talk for — actually, double mark it. i'm going to ask you one question about politics, only one. i'm kind of sick of politics, but i do want to ask you this. you're on a body now giving advice to a guy —em: who?ca: who has said he doesn't really believe in climate change, and there's a lot of people out there who think you shouldn't be doing that. they'd like you to walk away from that. what would you say to them?em: well, i think that first of all, i'm just on two advisory councils where the format consists of going around the room and asking people's opinion on things, and so there's like a meeting every month or two. that's the sum total of my contribution. but i think to the degree that there are people in the room who are arguing in favor of doing something about climate change, or social issues, i've used the meetings i've had thus far to argue in favor of immigration and in favor of climate change. and if i hadn't done that, that wasn't on the agenda before. so maybe nothing will happen, but at least the words were said.ca: ok. so let's talk spacex and mars. last time you were here, you spoke about what seemed like a kind of incredibly ambitious dream to develop rockets that were actually reusable. and you've only gone and done it.em: finally. it took a long time.ca: talk us through this. what are we looking at here?em: so this is one of our rocket boosters coming back from very high and fast in space. so just delivered the upper stage at high velocity. i think this might have been at sort of mach 7 or so, delivery of the upper stage. ca: so that was a sped-up —em: that was the slowed down version. ca: i thought that was the sped-up version. but i mean, that's amazing, and several of these failed before you finally figured out how to do it, but now you've done this, what, five or six times?em: we're at eight or nine.ca: and for the first time, you've actually reflown one of the rockets that landed.em: yeah, so we landed the rocket booster and then prepped it for flight again and flew it again, so it's the first reflight of an orbital booster where that reflight is relevant. so it's important to appreciate that reusability is only relevant if it is rapid and complete. so like an aircraft or a car, the reusability is rapid and complete. you do not send your aircraft to boeing in-between flights.ca: right. so this is allowing you to dream of this really ambitious idea of sending many, many, many people to mars in, what, 10 or 20 years time, i guess.em: yeah.ca: and you've designed this outrageous rocket to do it. help us understand the scale of this thing.em: well, visually you can see that's a person. yeah, and that's the vehicle. ca: so if that was a skyscraper, that's like, did i read that, a 40-story skyscraper?em: probably a little more, yeah. the thrust level of this is really — this configuration is about four times the thrust of the saturn v moon rocket.ca: four times the thrust of the biggest rocket humanity ever created before.em: yeah. yeah.ca: as one does. em: yeah. in units of 747, a 747 is only about a quarter of a million pounds of thrust, so for every 10 million pounds of thrust, there's 40 747s. so this would be the thrust equivalent of 120 747s, with all engines blazing.ca: and so even with a machine designed to escape earth's gravity, i think you told me last time this thing could actually take a fully loaded 747, people, cargo, everything, into orbit.em: exactly. this can take a fully loaded 747 with maximum fuel, maximum passengers, maximum cargo on the 747 — this can take it as cargo.ca: so based on this, you presented recently this interplanetary transport system which is visualized this way. this is a scene you picture in, what, 30 years time? 20 years time? people walking into this rocket.em: i'm hopeful it's sort of an eight- to 10-year time frame. aspirationally, that's our target. our internal targets are more aggressive, but i think — ca: ok.em: while vehicle seems quite large and is large by comparison with other rockets, i think the future spacecraft will make this look like a rowboat. the future spaceships will be truly enormous.ca: why, elon? why do we need to build a city on mars with a million people on it in your lifetime, which i think is kind of what you've said you'd love to do?em: i think it's important to have a future that is inspiring and appealing. i just think there have to be reasons that you get up in the morning and you want to live. like, why do you want to live? what's the point? what inspires you? what do you love about the future? and if we're not out there, if the future does not include being out there among the stars and being a multiplanet species, i find that it's incredibly depressing if that's not the future that we're going to have. ca: people want to position this as an either or, that there are so many desperate things happening on the planet now from climate to poverty to, you know, you pick your issue. and this feels like a distraction. you shouldn't be thinking about this. you should be solving what's here and now. and to be fair, you've done a fair old bit to actually do that with your work on sustainable energy. but why not just do that?em: i think there's — i look at the future from the standpoint of probabilities. it's like a branching stream of probabilities, and there are actions that we can take that affect those probabilities or that accelerate one thing or slow down another thing. i may introduce something new to the probability stream. sustainable energy will happen no matter what. if there was no tesla, if tesla never existed, it would have to happen out of necessity. it's tautological. if you don't have sustainable energy, it means you have unsustainable energy. eventually you will run out, and the laws of economics will drive civilization towards sustainable energy, inevitably. the fundamental value of a company like tesla is the degree to which it accelerates the advent of sustainable energy, faster than it would otherwise occur.so when i think, like, what is the fundamental good of a company like tesla, i would say, hopefully, if it accelerated that by a decade, potentially more than a decade, that would be quite a good thing to occur. that's what i consider to be the fundamental aspirational good of tesla.then there's becoming a multiplanet species and space-faring civilization. this is not inevitable. it's very important to appreciate this is not inevitable. the sustainable energy future i think is largely inevitable, but being a space-faring civilization is definitely not inevitable. if you look at the progress in space, in 1969 you were able to send somebody to the moon. 1969. then we had the space shuttle. the space shuttle could only take people to low earth orbit. then the space shuttle retired, and the united states could take no one to orbit. so that's the trend. the trend is like down to nothing. people are mistaken when they think that technology just automatically improves. it does not automatically improve. it only improves if a lot of people work very hard to make it better, and actually it will, i think, by itself degrade, actually. you look at great civilizations like ancient egypt, and they were able to make the pyramids, and they forgot how to do that. and then the romans, they built these incredible aqueducts. they forgot how to do it.ca: elon, it almost seems, listening to you and looking at the different things you've done, that you've got this unique double motivation on everything that i find so interesting. one is this desire to work for humanity's long-term good. the other is the desire to do something exciting. and often it feels like you feel like you need the one to drive the other. with tesla, you want to have sustainable energy, so you made these super sexy, exciting cars to do it. solar energy, we need to get there, so we need to make these beautiful roofs. we haven't even spoken about your newest thing, which we don't have time to do, but you want to save humanity from bad ai, and so you're going to create this really cool brain-machine interface to give us all infinite memory and telepathy and so forth. and on mars, it feels like what you're saying is, yeah, we need to save humanity and have a backup plan, but also we need to inspire humanity, and this is a way to inspire.em: i think the value of beauty and inspiration is very much underrated, no question. but i want to be clear. i'm not trying to be anyone's savior. that is not the — i'm just trying to think about the future and not be sad. ca: beautiful statement. i think everyone here would agree that it is not — none of this is going to happen inevitably. the fact that in your mind, you dream this stuff, you dream stuff that no one else would dare dream, or no one else would be capable of dreaming at the level of complexity that you do. the fact that you do that, elon musk, is a really remarkable thing. thank you for helping us all to dream a bit bigger.em: but you'll tell me if it ever starts getting genuinely insane, right? ca: thank you, elon musk. that was really, really fantastic. that was really fantastic. <title = "Behind the lies of Holocaust denial">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'communication', 'global issues', 'history', 'humanity', 'law', 'society', 'violence', 'war', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Historian">
i come to you today to speak of liars, lawsuits and laughter. the first time i heard about holocaust denial, i laughed. holocaust denial? the holocaust which has the dubious distinction of being the best-documented genocide in the world? who could believe it didn't happen?think about it. for deniers to be right, who would have to be wrong? well, first of all, the victims — the survivors who have told us their harrowing stories. who else would have to be wrong? the bystanders. the people who lived in the myriads of towns and villages and cities on the eastern front, who watched their neighbors be rounded up — men, women, children, young, old — and be marched to the outskirts of the town to be shot and left dead in ditches. or the poles, who lived in towns and villages around the death camps, who watched day after day as the trains went in filled with people and came out empty.but above all, who would have to be wrong? the perpetrators. the people who say, "we did it. i did it." now, maybe they add a caveat. they say, "i didn't have a choice; i was forced to do it." but nonetheless, they say, "i did it." think about it. in not one war crimes trial since the end of world war ii has a perpetrator of any nationality ever said, "it didn't happen." again, they may have said, "i was forced," but never that it didn't happen. having thought that through, i decided denial was not going to be on my agenda; i had bigger things to worry about, to write about, to research, and i moved on.fast-forward a little over a decade, and two senior scholars — two of the most prominent historians of the holocaust — approached me and said, "deborah, let's have coffee. we have a research idea that we think is perfect for you." intrigued and flattered that they came to me with an idea and thought me worthy of it, i asked, "what is it?" and they said, "holocaust denial." and for the second time, i laughed. holocaust denial? the flat earth folks? the elvis-is-alive people? i should study them? and these two guys said, "yeah, we're intrigued. what are they about? what's their objective? how do they manage to get people to believe what they say?"so thinking, if they thought it was worthwhile, i would take a momentary diversion — maybe a year, maybe two, three, maybe even four — in academic terms, that's momentary. we work very slowly. and i would look at them. so i did. i did my research, and i came up with a number of things, two of which i'd like to share with you today.one: deniers are wolves in sheep's clothing. they are the same: nazis, neo-nazis — you can decide whether you want to put a "neo" there or not. but when i looked at them, i didn't see any ss-like uniforms, swastika-like symbols on the wall, sieg heil salutes — none of that. what i found instead were people parading as respectable academics.what did they have? they had an institute. an "institute for historical review." they had a journal — a slick journal — a "journal of historical review." one filled with papers — footnote-laden papers. and they had a new name. not neo-nazis, not anti-semites — revisionists. they said, "we are revisionists. we are out to do one thing: to revise mistakes in history." but all you had to do was go one inch below the surface, and what did you find there? the same adulation of hitler, praise of the third reich, anti-semitism, racism, prejudice. this is what intrigued me. it was anti-semitism, racism, prejudice, parading as rational discourse.the other thing i found — many of us have been taught to think there are facts and there are opinions — after studying deniers, i think differently. there are facts, there are opinions, and there are lies. and what deniers want to do is take their lies, dress them up as opinions — maybe edgy opinions, maybe sort of out-of-the-box opinions — but then if they're opinions, they should be part of the conversation. and then they encroach on the facts.i published my work — the book was published, "denying the holocaust: the growing assault on truth and memory," it came out in many different countries, including here in penguin uk, and i was done with those folks and ready to move on. then came the letter from penguin uk. and for the third time, i laughed ... mistakenly. i opened the letter, and it informed me that david irving was bringing a libel suit against me in the united kingdom for calling him a holocaust denier.david irving suing me? who was david irving? david irving was a writer of historical works, most of them about world war ii, and virtually all of those works took the position that the nazis were really not so bad, and the allies were really not so good. and the jews, whatever happened to them, they sort of deserved it. he knew the documents, he knew the facts, but he somehow twisted them to get this opinion. he hadn't always been a holocaust denier, but in the late '80s, he embraced it with great vigor.the reason i laughed also was this was a man who not only was a holocaust denier, but seemed quite proud of it. here was a man — and i quote — who said, "i'm going to sink the battleship auschwitz." here was a man who pointed to the number tattooed on a survivor's arm and said, "how much money have you made from having that number tattooed on your arm?" here was a man who said, "more people died in senator kennedy's car at chappaquiddick than died in gas chambers at auschwitz." that's an american reference, but you can look it up. this was not a man who seemed at all ashamed or reticent about being a holocaust denier.now, lots of my academic colleagues counseled me — "eh, deborah, just ignore it." when i explained you can't just ignore a libel suit, they said, "who's going to believe him anyway?" but here was the problem: british law put the onus, put the burden of proof on me to prove the truth of what i said, in contrast to as it would have been in the united states and in many other countries: on him to prove the falsehood.what did that mean? that meant if i didn't fight, he would win by default. and if he won by default, he could then legitimately say, "my david irving version of the holocaust is a legitimate version. deborah lipstadt was found to have libeled me when she called me a holocaust denier. ipso facto, i, david irving, am not a holocaust denier." and what is that version? there was no plan to murder the jews, there were no gas chambers, there were no mass shootings, hitler had nothing to do with any suffering that went on, and the jews have made this all up to get money from germany and to get a state, and they've done it with the aid and abettance of the allies — they've planted the documents and planted the evidence.i couldn't let that stand and ever face a survivor or a child of survivors. i couldn't let that stand and consider myself a responsible historian. so we fought. and for those of you who haven't seen "denial," spoiler alert: we won. the judge found david irving to be a liar, a racist, an anti-semite. his view of history was tendentious, he lied, he distorted — and most importantly, he did it deliberately. we showed a pattern, in over 25 different major instances. not small things — many of us in this audience write books, are writing books; we always make mistakes, that's why we're glad to have second editions: correct the mistakes. but these always moved in the same direction: blame the jews, exonerate the nazis.but how did we win? what we did is follow his footnotes back to his sources. and what did we find? not in most cases, and not in the preponderance of cases, but in every single instance where he made some reference to the holocaust, that his supposed evidence was distorted, half-truth, date-changed, sequence-changed, someone put at a meeting who wasn't there. in other words, he didn't have the evidence. his evidence didn't prove it. we didn't prove what happened. we proved that what he said happened — and by extension, all deniers, because he either quotes them or they get their arguments from him — is not true. what they claim — they don't have the evidence to prove it.so why is my story more than just the story of a quirky, long, six-year, difficult lawsuit, an american professor being dragged into a courtroom by a man that the court declared in its judgment was a neo-nazi polemicist? what message does it have? i think in the context of the question of truth, it has a very significant message. because today, as we well know, truth and facts are under assault. social media, for all the gifts it has given us, has also allowed the difference between facts — established facts — and lies to be flattened.third of all: extremism. you may not see ku klux klan robes, you may not see burning crosses, you may not even hear outright white supremacist language. it may go by names: "alt-right," "national front" — pick your names. but underneath, it's that same extremism that i found in holocaust denial parading as rational discourse.we live in an age where truth is on the defensive. i'm reminded of a new yorker cartoon. a quiz show recently appeared in "the new yorker" where the host of the quiz show is saying to one of the contestants, "yes, ma'am, you had the right answer. but your opponent yelled more loudly than you did, so he gets the point."what can we do? first of all, we cannot be beguiled by rational appearances. we've got to look underneath, and we will find there the extremism. second of all, we must understand that truth is not relative. number three, we must go on the offensive, not the defensive. when someone makes an outrageous claim, even though they may hold one of the highest offices in the land, if not the world — we must say to them, "where's the proof? where's the evidence?" we must hold their feet to the fire. we must not treat it as if their lies are the same as the facts.and as i said earlier, truth is not relative. many of us have grown up in the world of the academy and enlightened liberal thought, where we're taught everything is open to debate. but that's not the case. there are certain things that are true. there are indisputable facts — objective truths. galileo taught it to us centuries ago. even after being forced to recant by the vatican that the earth moved around the sun, he came out, and what is he reported to have said? "and yet, it still moves."the earth is not flat. the climate is changing. elvis is not alive. and most importantly, truth and fact are under assault. the job ahead of us, the task ahead of us, the challenge ahead of us is great. the time to fight is short. we must act now. later will be too late.thank you very much. <title = "How (and why) Russia hacked the US election">
<tags = "['Internet', 'algorithm', 'communication', 'computers', 'data', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'hack', 'intelligence', 'news', 'policy', 'politics', 'society', 'technology', 'web']">
<occupation = "Cyberspace analyst">
let's say you despise western democracy. democracy, in all its trappings, free elections, town halls, endless debates about the proper role of government. too messy, too unpredictable, too constraining for your taste. and the way these democracies band together and lecture everyone else about individual rights and freedoms — it gets under your skin.so what to do about it? you can call out the hypocrisy and failures of western democracies and explain how your way is better, but that's never really worked for you. what if you could get the people whose support is the very foundation of these democracies to start questioning the system? make the idea occur in their own minds that democracy and its institutions are failing them, their elite are corrupt puppet masters and the country they knew is in free fall. to do that, you'll need to infiltrate the information spheres of these democracies. you'll need to turn their most powerful asset — an open mind — into their greatest vulnerability. you'll need people to question the truth.now, you'll be familiar of hacking and leaks that happened in 2016. one was the democratic national committee's networks, and the personal email accounts of its staff, later released on wikileaks. after that, various online personas, like a supposed romanian cybercriminal who didn't speak romanian, aggressively pushed news of these leaks to journalists. the media took the bait. they were consumed by how much the dnc hated bernie. at the time, it was that narrative that far outshined the news that a group of russian government sponsored hackers who we called "advanced persistent threat 28," or "apt28" for short, was carrying out these operations against the us.and there was no shortage of evidence. this group of russian government hackers hadn't just appeared out of nowhere in 2016. we had started tracking this group back in 2014. and the tools that apt28 used to compromise its victims' networks demonstrated a thoughtful, well-resourced effort that had taken place for now over a decade in moscow's time zone from about 9 am to 6 pm. apt28 loved to prey on the emails and contacts of journalists in chechnya, the georgian government, eastern european defense attachés — all targets with an undeniable interest to the russian government.we weren't the only ones onto this. governments, research teams across the world, were coming to similar conclusions and observing the same types of operations. but what russia was doing in 2016 went far beyond espionage. the dnc hack was just one of many where stolen data was posted online accompanied by a sensational narrative, then amplified in social media for lightning-speed adoption by the media. this didn't ring the alarm bells that a nation-state was trying to interfere with the credibility of another's internal affairs.so why, collectively, did we not see this coming? why did it take months before americans understood that they were under a state-sponsored information attack? the easy answer is politics. the obama administration was caught in a perfect catch-22. by raising the specter that the russian government was interfering in the us presidential campaign, the administration risked appearing to meddle in the campaign itself. but the better answer, i think, is that the us and the west were utterly unequipped to recognize and respond to a modern information operation, despite the fact that the us had wielded information with devastating success in an era not so long ago.look, so while the us and the west spent the last 20 years caught up in cybersecurity — what networks to harden, which infrastructure to deem critical, how to set up armies of cyber warriors and cyber commands — russia was thinking in far more consequential terms. before the first iphone even hit the shelf, the russian government understood the risks and the opportunity that technology provided and the inter-communication and instant communication it provided us.as our realities are increasingly based on the information that we're consuming at the palm of our hand and from the news feeds that we're scanning and the hashtags and stories that we see trending, the russian government was the first to recognize how this evolution had turned your mind into the most exploitable device on the planet. and your mind is particularly exploitable if you're accustomed to an unfettered flow of information, now increasingly curated to your own tastes. this panorama of information that's so interesting to you gives a state, or anyone for that matter, a perfect back door into your mind.it's this new brand of state-sponsored information operations that can be that much more successful, more insidious, and harder for the target audience — that includes the media — to decipher and characterize. if you can get a hashtag trending on twitter, or chum the waters with fake news directed to audiences primed to receive it, or drive journalists to dissect terabytes of email for a cent of impropriety — all tactics used in russian operations — then you've got a shot at effectively camouflaging your operations in the mind of your target. this is what russia's long called "reflexive control." it's the ability to use information on someone else so that they make a decision on their own accord that's favorable to you. this is nation-state-grade image control and perception management, and it's conducted by any means, with any tools, network-based or otherwise, that will achieve it.take this for another example. in early february 2014, a few weeks before russia would invade crimea, a phone call is posted on youtube. in it, there's two us diplomats. they sound like they're playing kingmaker in ukraine, and worse, they curse the eu for its lack of speed and leadership in resolving the crisis. the media covers the phone call, and then the ensuing diplomatic backlash leaves washington and europe reeling. and it creates a fissured response and a feckless attitude towards russia's land grab in ukraine. mission accomplished.so while hacked phone calls and emails and networks keep grabbing the headlines, the real operations are the ones that are influencing the decisions you make and the opinions you hold, all in the service of a nation-state's strategic interest. this is power in the information age. and this information is all that much more seductive, all that much easier to take at face value and pass on, when it's authentic. who's not interested in the truth that's presented in phone calls and emails that were never intended for public consumption? but how meaningful is that truth if you don't know why it's being revealed to you?we must recognize that this place where we're increasingly living, which we've quaintly termed "cyberspace," isn't defined by ones and zeroes, but by information and the people behind it. this is far more than a network of computers and devices. this is a network composed of minds interacting with computers and devices.and for this network, there's no encryption, there's no firewall, no two-factor authentication, no password complex enough to protect you. what you have for defense is far stronger, it's more adaptable, it's always running the latest version. it's the ability to think critically: call out falsehood, press for the facts. and above all, you must have the courage to unflinchingly pursue the truth. <title = "There's no shame in taking care of your mental health">
<tags = "['Africa', 'TED Fellows', 'activism', 'communication', 'depression', 'entrepreneur', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'identity', 'mental health', 'personal growth', 'personality', 'social change', 'society', 'vulnerability']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
last year ... was hell. it was my first time eating nigerian "jollof." actually, in all seriousness, i was going through a lot of personal turmoil. faced with enormous stress, i suffered an anxiety attack. on some days, i could do no work. on other days, i just wanted to lay in my bed and cry.my doctor asked if i'd like to speak with a mental health professional about my stress and anxiety. mental health? i clammed up and violently shook my head in protest. i felt a profound sense of a shame. i felt the weight of stigma. i have a loving, supportive family and incredibly loyal friends, yet i could not entertain the idea of speaking to anyone about my feeling of pain. i felt suffocated by the rigid architecture of our african masculinity. "people have real problems, sangu. get over yourself!"the first time i heard "mental health," i was a boarding school student fresh off the boat from ghana, at the peddie school in new jersey. i had just gone through the brutal experience of losing seven loved ones in the same month. the school nurse, concerned about what i'd gone through — god bless her soul — she inquired about my mental health. "is she mental?" i thought. does she not know i'm an african man? like okonkwo in "things fall apart," we african men neither process nor express our emotions. we deal with our problems. we deal with our problems. i called my brother and laughed about "oyibo" people — white people — and their strange diseases — depression, add and those "weird things." growing up in west africa, when people used the term "mental," what came to mind was a madman with dirty, dread-locked hair, bumbling around half-naked on the streets. we all know this man. our parents warned us about him. "mommy, mommy, why is he mad?" "drugs! if you even look at drugs, you end up like him." come down with pneumonia, and your mother will rush you to the nearest hospital for medical treatment. but dare to declare depression, and your local pastor will be driving out demons and blaming witches in your village.according to the world health organization, mental health is about being able to cope with the normal stressors of life; to work productively and fruitfully; and to be able to make a contribution to your community. mental health includes our emotional, psychological and social well-being. globally, 75 percent of all mental illness cases can be found in low-income countries. yet most african governments invest less than one percent of their health care budget in mental health.even worse, we have a severe shortage of psychiatrists in africa. nigeria, for example, is estimated to have 200 — in a country of almost 200 million. in all of africa, 90 percent of our people lack access to treatment. as a result, we suffer in solitude, silenced by stigma.we as africans often respond to mental health with distance, ignorance, guilt, fear and anger. in a study conducted by arboleda-flórez, directly asking, "what is the cause of mental illness?" 34 percent of nigerian respondents cited drug misuse; 19 percent said divine wrath and the will of god — 12 percent, witchcraft and spiritual possession. but few cited other known causes of mental illness, like genetics, socioeconomic status, war, conflict or the loss of a loved one. the stigmatization against mental illness often results in the ostracizing and demonizing of sufferers. photojournalist robin hammond has documented some of these abuses ... in uganda, in somalia, and here in nigeria.for me, the stigma is personal. in 2009, i received a frantic call in the middle of the night. my best friend in the world — a brilliant, philosophical, charming, hip young man — was diagnosed with schizophrenia. i witnessed some of the friends we'd grown up with recoil. i heard the snickers. i heard the whispers. "did you hear he has gone mad?" (kru english) "he has gone crazy!" derogatory, demeaning commentary about his condition — words we would never say about someone with cancer or someone with malaria. somehow, when it comes to mental illness, our ignorance eviscerates all empathy. i stood by his side as his community isolated him, but our love never wavered.tacitly, i became passionate about mental health. inspired by his plight, i helped found the mental health special interest alumni group at my college. and during my tenure as a resident tutor in graduate school, i supported many undergraduates with their mental health challenges. i saw african students struggle and unable to speak to anyone. even with this knowledge and with their stories in tow, i, in turn, struggled, and could not speak to anyone when i faced my own anxiety, so deep is our fear of being the madman.all of us — but we africans especially — need to realize that our mental struggles do not detract from our virility, nor does our trauma taint our strength. we need to see mental health as important as physical health. we need to stop suffering in silence. we must stop stigmatizing disease and traumatizing the afflicted.talk to your friends. talk to your loved ones. talk to health professionals. be vulnerable. do so with the confidence that you are not alone. speak up if you're struggling. being honest about how we feel does not make us weak; it makes us human.it is time to end the stigma associated with mental illness. so the next time your hear "mental," do not just think of the madman. think of me. thank you. <title = "A summer school kids actually want to attend">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'children', 'education', 'inequality', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Education entrepreneur">
getting a college education is a 20-year investment. when you're growing up poor, you're not accustomed to thinking that far ahead. instead, you're thinking about where you're going to get your next meal and how your family is going to pay rent that month. besides, my parents and my friends' parents seemed to be doing just fine driving taxis and working as janitors. it wasn't until i was a teenager when i realized i didn't want to do those things. by then, i was two-thirds of the way through my education, and it was almost too late to turn things around.when you grow up poor, you want to be rich. i was no different. i'm the second-oldest of seven, and was raised by a single mother on government aid in queens, new york. by virtue of growing up low-income, my siblings and i went to some of new york city's most struggling public schools. i had over 60 absences when i was in seventh grade, because i didn't feel like going to class. my high school had a 55 percent graduation rate, and even worse, only 20 percent of the kids graduating were college-ready.when i actually did make it to college, i told my friend brennan how our teachers would always ask us to raise our hands if we were going to college. i was taken aback when brennan said, "karim, i've never been asked that question before." it was always, "what college are you going to?" just the way that question is phrased made it unacceptable for him not to have gone to college.nowadays i get asked a different question. "how were you able to make it out?" for years i said i was lucky, but it's not just luck. when my older brother and i graduated from high school at the very same time and he later dropped out of a two-year college, i wanted to understand why he dropped out and i kept studying. it wasn't until i got to cornell as a presidential research scholar that i started to learn about the very real educational consequences of being raised by a single mother on government aid and attending the schools that i did. that's when my older brother's trajectory began to make complete sense to me.i also learned that our most admirable education reformers, people like arne duncan, the former us secretary of education, or wendy kopp, the founder of teach for america, had never attended an inner city public school like i had. so much of our education reform is driven by a sympathetic approach, where people are saying, "let's go and help these poor inner city kids, or these poor black and latino kids," instead of an empathetic approach, where someone like me, who had grown up in this environment, could say, "i know the adversities that you're facing and i want to help you overcome them."today when i get questions about how i made it out, i share that one of the biggest reasons is that i wasn't ashamed to ask for help. in a typical middle class or affluent household, if a kid is struggling, there's a good chance that a parent or a teacher will come to their rescue even if they don't ask for help. however, if that same kid is growing up poor and doesn't ask for help, there's a good chance that no one will help them. there are virtually no social safety nets available.so seven years ago, i started to reform our public education system shaped by my firsthand perspective. and i started with summer school. research tells us that two-thirds of the achievement gap, which is the disparity in educational attainment between rich kids and poor kids or black kids and white kids, could be directly attributed to the summer learning loss. in low-income neighborhoods, kids forget almost three months of what they learned during the school year over the summer. they return to school in the fall, and their teachers spend another two months reteaching them old material. that's five months. the school year in the united states is only 10 months. if kids lose five months of learning every single year, that's half of their education. half.if kids were in school over the summer, then they couldn't regress, but traditional summer school is poorly designed. for kids it feels like punishment, and for teachers it feels like babysitting. but how can we expect principals to execute an effective summer program when the school year ends the last week of june and then summer school starts just one week later? there just isn't enough time to find the right people, sort out the logistics, and design an engaging curriculum that excites kids and teachers.but what if we created a program over the summer that empowered teachers as teaching coaches to develop aspiring educators? what if we empowered college-educated role models as teaching fellows to help kids realize their college ambitions? what if empowered high-achieving kids as mentors to tutor their younger peers and inspire them to invest in their education? what if we empowered all kids as scholars, asked them what colleges they were going to, designed a summer school they want to attend to completely eliminate the summer learning loss and close two-thirds of the achievement gap?by this summer, my team will have served over 4,000 low-income children, trained over 300 aspiring teachers and created more than 1,000 seasonal jobs across some of new york city's most disadvantaged neighborhoods. and our kids are succeeding. two years of independent evaluations tell us that our kids eliminate the summer learning loss and make growth of one month in math and two months in reading. so instead of returning to school in the fall three months behind, they now go back four months ahead in math and five months ahead in reading. ten years ago, if you would have told me that i'd graduate in the top 10 percent of my class from an ivy league institution and have an opportunity to make a dent on our public education system just by tackling two months of the calendar year, i would have said, "nah. no way." what's even more exciting is that if we can prevent five months of lost time just by redesigning two months, imagine the possibilities that we can unlock by tackling the rest of the calendar year.thank you. <title = "A tribute to nurses">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'cancer', 'community', 'compassion', 'death', 'empathy', 'family', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'life', 'medicine', 'personal growth', 'society']">
<occupation = "Photographic ethnographer">
as patients, we usually remember the names of our doctors, but often we forget the names of our nurses. i remember one. i had breast cancer a few years ago, and somehow i managed to get through the surgeries and the beginning of the treatment just fine. i could hide what was going on. everybody didn't really have to know. i could walk my daughter to school, i could go out to dinner with my husband; i could fool people. but then my chemo was scheduled to begin and that terrified me because i knew that i was going to lose every single hair on my body because of the kind of chemo that i was going to have. i wasn't going to be able to pretend anymore as though everything was normal.i was scared. i knew what it felt like to have everybody treating me with kid gloves, and i just wanted to feel normal. i had a port installed in my chest. i went to my first day of chemotherapy, and i was an emotional wreck. my nurse, joanne, walked in the door, and every bone in my body was telling me to get up out of that chair and take for the hills. but joanne looked at me and talked to me like we were old friends. and then she asked me, "where'd you get your highlights done?" and i was like, are you kidding me? you're going to talk to me about my hair when i'm on the verge of losing it? i was kind of angry, and i said, "really? hair?" and with a shrug of her shoulders she said, "it's gonna grow back." and in that moment she said the one thing i had overlooked, and that was that at some point, my life would get back to normal. she really believed that. and so i believed it, too.now, worrying about losing your hair when you're fighting cancer may seem silly at first, but it's not just that you're worried about how you're going to look. it's that you're worried that everybody's going to treat you so carefully. joanne made me feel normal for the first time in six months. we talked about her boyfriends, we talked about looking for apartments in new york city, and we talked about my reaction to the chemotherapy — all kind of mixed in together. and i always wondered, how did she so instinctively know just how to talk to me?joanne staha and my admiration for her marked the beginning of my journey into the world of nurses. a few years later, i was asked to do a project that would celebrate the work that nurses do. i started with joanne, and i met over 100 nurses across the country. i spent five years interviewing, photographing and filming nurses for a book and a documentary film. with my team, we mapped a trip across america that would take us to places dealing with some of the biggest public health issues facing our nation — aging, war, poverty, prisons. and then we went places where we would find the largest concentration of patients dealing with those issues. then we asked hospitals and facilities to nominate nurses who would best represent them.one of the first nurses i met was bridget kumbella. bridget was born in cameroon, the oldest of four children. her father was at work when he had fallen from the fourth floor and really hurt his back. and he talked a lot about what it was like to be flat on your back and not get the kind of care that you need. and that propelled bridget to go into the profession of nursing. now, as a nurse in the bronx, she has a really diverse group of patients that she cares for, from all walks of life, and from all different religions. and she's devoted her career to understanding the impact of our cultural differences when it comes to our health. she spoke of a patient — a native american patient that she had — that wanted to bring a bunch of feathers into the icu. that's how he found spiritual comfort. and she spoke of advocating for him and said that patients come from all different religions and use all different kinds of objects for comfort; whether it's a holy rosary or a symbolic feather, it all needs to be supported.this is jason short. jason is a home health nurse in the appalachian mountains, and his dad had a gas station and a repair shop when he was growing up. so he worked on cars in the community that he now serves as a nurse. when he was in college, it was just not macho at all to become a nurse, so he avoided it for years. he drove trucks for a little while, but his life path was always pulling him back to nursing. as a nurse in the appalachian mountains, jason goes places that an ambulance can't even get to. in this photograph, he's standing in what used to be a road. top of the mountain mining flooded that road, and now the only way for jason to get to the patient living in that house with black lung disease is to drive his suv against the current up that creek. the day i was with him, we ripped the front fender off the car. the next morning he got up, put the car on the lift, fixed the fender, and then headed out to meet his next patient. i witnessed jason caring for this gentleman with such enormous compassion, and i was struck again by how intimate the work of nursing really is.when i met brian mcmillion, he was raw. he had just come back from a deployment and he hadn't really settled back in to life in san diego yet. he talked about his experience of being a nurse in germany and taking care of the soldiers coming right off the battlefield. very often, he would be the first person they would see when they opened their eyes in the hospital. and they would look at him as they were lying there, missing limbs, and the first thing they would say is, "when can i go back? i left my brothers out there." and brian would have to say, "you're not going anywhere. you've already given enough, brother." brian is both a nurse and a soldier who's seen combat. so that puts him in a unique position to be able to relate to and help heal the veterans in his care.this is sister stephen, and she runs a nursing home in wisconsin called villa loretto. and the entire circle of life can be found under her roof. she grew up wishing they lived on a farm, so given the opportunity to adopt local farm animals, she enthusiastically brings them in. and in the springtime, those animals have babies. and sister stephen uses those baby ducks, goats and lambs as animal therapy for the residents at villa loretto who sometimes can't remember their own name, but they do rejoice in the holding of a baby lamb. the day i was with sister stephen, i needed to take her away from villa loretto to film part of her story. and before we left, she went into the room of a dying patient. and she leaned over and she said, "i have to go away for the day, but if jesus calls you, you go. you go straight home to jesus." i was standing there and thinking it was the first time in my life i witnessed that you could show someone you love them completely by letting go. we don't have to hold on so tightly. i saw more life rolled up at villa loretto than i have ever seen at any other time at any other place in my life.we live in a complicated time when it comes to our health care. it's easy to lose sight of the need for quality of life, not just quantity of life. as new life-saving technologies are created, we're going to have really complicated decisions to make. these technologies often save lives, but they can also prolong pain and the dying process. how in the world are we supposed to navigate these waters? we're going to need all the help we can get. nurses have a really unique relationship with us because of the time spent at bedside. during that time, a kind of emotional intimacy develops.this past summer, on august 9, my father died of a heart attack. my mother was devastated, and she couldn't imagine her world without him in it. four days later she fell, she broke her hip, she needed surgery and she found herself fighting for her own life. once again i found myself on the receiving end of the care of nurses — this time for my mom. my brother and my sister and i stayed by her side for the next three days in the icu. and as we tried to make the right decisions and follow my mother's wishes, we found that we were depending upon the guidance of nurses. and once again, they didn't let us down. they had an amazing insight in terms of how to care for my mom in the last four days of her life. they brought her comfort and relief from pain. they knew to encourage my sister and i to put a pretty nightgown on my mom, long after it mattered to her, but it sure meant a lot to us. and they knew to come and wake me up just in time for my mom's last breath. and then they knew how long to leave me in the room with my mother after she died.i have no idea how they know these things, but i do know that i am eternally grateful that they've guided me once again.thank you so very much. <title = "The biology of our best and worst selves">
<tags = "['biology', 'brain', 'genetics', 'life', 'mind', 'motivation', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'personality', 'physiology', 'science', 'society', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist, primatologist, writer">
chris anderson: so robert spent the last few years think about how weird human behavior is, and how inadequate most of our language trying to explain it is. and it's very exciting to hear him explain some of the thinking behind it in public for the first time. over to you now, robert sapolsky. robert sapolsky: thank you. the fantasy always runs something like this. i've overpowered his elite guard, burst into his secret bunker with my machine gun ready. he lunges for his luger. i knock it out of his hand. he lunges for his cyanide pill. i knock that out of his hand. he snarls, comes at me with otherworldly strength. we grapple, we fight, i manage to pin him down and put on handcuffs. "adolf hitler," i say, "i arrest you for crimes against humanity."here's where the medal of honor version of the fantasy ends and the imagery darkens. what would i do if i had hitler? it's not hard to imagine once i allow myself. sever his spine at the neck. take out his eyes with a blunt instrument. puncture his eardrums. cut out his tongue. leave him alive on a respirator, tube-fed, not able to speak or move or see or hear, just to feel, and then inject him with something cancerous that's going to fester and pustulate until every cell in his body is screaming in agony, until every second feels like an eternity in hell. that's what i would do to hitler.i've had this fantasy since i was a kid, still do sometimes, and when i do, my heart speeds up — all these plans for the most evil, wicked soul in history. but there's a problem, which is i don't actually believe in souls or evil, and i think wicked belongs in a musical. but there's some people i would like to see killed, but i'm against the death penalty. but i like schlocky violent movies, but i'm for strict gun control. but then there was a time i was at a laser tag place, and i had such a good time hiding in a corner shooting at people. in other words, i'm your basic confused human when it comes to violence.now, as a species, we obviously have problems with violence. we use shower heads to deliver poison gas, letters with anthrax, airplanes as weapons, mass rape as a military strategy. we're a miserably violent species. but there's a complication, which is we don't hate violence, we hate the wrong kind. and when it's the right kind, we cheer it on, we hand out medals, we vote for, we mate with our champions of it. when it's the right kind of violence, we love it. and there's another complication, which is, in addition to us being this miserably violent species, we're also this extraordinarily altruistic, compassionate one.so how do you make sense of the biology of our best behaviors, our worst ones and all of those ambiguously in between?now, for starters, what's totally boring is understanding the motoric aspects of the behavior. your brain tells your spine, tells your muscles to do something or other, and hooray, you've behaved. what's hard is understanding the meaning of the behavior, because in some settings, pulling a trigger is an appalling act; in others, it's heroically self-sacrificial. in some settings, putting your hand one someone else's is deeply compassionate. in others, it's a deep betrayal. the challenge is to understand the biology of the context of our behaviors, and that's real tough.one thing that's clear, though, is you're not going to get anywhere if you think there's going to be the brain region or the hormone or the gene or the childhood experience or the evolutionary mechanism that explains everything. instead, every bit of behavior has multiple levels of causality.let's look at an example. you have a gun. there's a crisis going on: rioting, violence, people running around. a stranger is running at you in an agitated state — you can't quite tell if the expression is frightened, threatening, angry — holding something that kind of looks like a handgun. you're not sure. the stranger comes running at you and you pull the trigger. and it turns out that thing in this person's hand was a cell phone.so we asked this biological question: what was going on that caused this behavior? what caused this behavior? and this is a multitude of questions.we start. what was going on in your brain one second before you pulled that trigger? and this brings us into the realm of a brain region called the amygdala. the amygdala, which is central to violence, central to fear, initiates volleys of cascades that produce pulling of a trigger. what was the level of activity in your amygdala one second before?but to understand that, we have to step back a little bit. what was going on in the environment seconds to minutes before that impacted the amygdala? now, obviously, the sights, the sounds of the rioting, that was pertinent. but in addition, you're more likely to mistake a cell phone for a handgun if that stranger was male and large and of a different race. furthermore, if you're in pain, if you're hungry, if you're exhausted, your frontal cortex is not going to work as well, part of the brain whose job it is to get to the amygdala in time saying, "are you really sure that's a gun there?"but we need to step further back. now we have to look at hours to days before, and with this, we have entered the realm of hormones. for example, testosterone, where regardless of your sex, if you have elevated testosterone levels in your blood, you're more likely to think a face with a neutral expression is instead looking threatening. elevated testosterone levels, elevated levels of stress hormones, and your amygdala is going to be more active and your frontal cortex will be more sluggish.pushing back further, weeks to months before, where's the relevance there? this is the realm of neural plasticity, the fact that your brain can change in response to experience, and if your previous months have been filled with stress and trauma, your amygdala will have enlarged. the neurons will have become more excitable, your frontal cortex would have atrophied, all relevant to what happens in that one second.but we push back even more, back years, back, for example, to your adolescence. now, the central fact of the adolescent brain is all of it is going full blast except the frontal cortex, which is still half-baked. it doesn't fully mature until you're around 25. and thus, adolescence and early adulthood are the years where environment and experience sculpt your frontal cortex into the version you're going to have as an adult in that critical moment.but pushing back even further, even further back to childhood and fetal life and all the different versions that that could come in. now, obviously, that's the time that your brain is being constructed, and that's important, but in addition, experience during those times produce what are called epigenetic changes, permanent, in some cases, permanently activating certain genes, turning off others. and as an example of this, if as a fetus you were exposed to a lot of stress hormones through your mother, epigenetics is going to produce your amygdala in adulthood as a more excitable form, and you're going to have elevated stress hormone levels.but pushing even further back, back to when you were just a fetus, back to when all you were was a collection of genes. now, genes are really important to all of this, but critically, genes don't determine anything, because genes work differently in different environments. key example here: there's a variant of a gene called mao-a, and if you have that variant, you are far more likely to commit antisocial violence if, and only if, you were abused as a child. genes and environment interact, and what's happening in that one second before you pull that trigger reflects your lifetime of those gene-environment interactions.now, remarkably enough, we've got to push even further back now, back centuries. what were your ancestors up to. and if, for example, they were nomadic pastoralists, they were pastoralists, people living in deserts or grasslands with their herds of camels, cows, goats, odds are they would have invented what's called a culture of honor filled with warrior classes, retributive violence, clan vendettas, and amazingly, centuries later, that would still be influencing the values with which you were raised.but we've got to push even further back, back millions of years, because if we're talking about genes, implicitly we're now talking about the evolution of genes. and what you see is, for example, patterns across different primate species. some of them have evolved for extremely low levels of aggression, others have evolved in the opposite direction, and floating there in between by every measure are humans, once again this confused, barely defined species that has all these potentials to go one way or the other.so what has this gotten us to? basically, what we're seeing here is, if you want to understand a behavior, whether it's an appalling one, a wondrous one, or confusedly in between, if you want to understand that, you've got take into account what happened a second before to a million years before, everything in between.so what can we conclude at this point? officially, it's complicated. wow, that's really helpful. it's complicated, and you'd better be real careful, real cautious before you conclude you know what causes a behavior, especially if it's a behavior you're judging harshly.now, to me, the single most important point about all of this is one having to do with change. every bit of biology i have mentioned here can change in different circumstances. for example, ecosystems change. thousands of years ago, the sahara was a lush grassland. cultures change. in the 17th century, the most terrifying people in europe were the swedes, rampaging all over the place. this is what the swedish military does now. they haven't had a war in 200 years. most importantly, brains change. neurons grow new processes. circuits disconnect. everything in the brain changes, and out of this come extraordinary examples of human change.first one: this is a man named john newton, a british theologian who played a central role in the abolition of slavery from the british empire in the early 1800s. and amazingly, this man spent decades as a younger man as the captain of a slave ship, and then as an investor in slavery, growing rich from this. and then something changed. something changed in him, something that newton himself celebrated in the thing that he's most famous for, a hymn that he wrote: "amazing grace."this is a man named zenji abe on the morning of december 6, 1941, about to lead a squadron of japanese bombers to attack pearl harbor. and this is the same man 50 years later to the day hugging a man who survived the attack on the ground. and as an old man, zenji abe came to a collection of pearl harbor survivors at a ceremony there and in halting english apologized for what he had done as a young man.now, it doesn't always require decades. sometimes, extraordinary change could happen in just hours. consider the world war i christmas truce of 1914. the powers that be had negotiated a brief truce so that soldiers could go out, collect bodies from no-man's-land in between the trench lines. and soon british and german soldiers were doing that, and then helping each other carry bodies, and then helping each other dig graves in the frozen ground, and then praying together, and then having christmas together and exchanging gifts, and by the next day, they were playing soccer together and exchanging addresses so they could meet after the war. that truce kept going until the officers had to arrive and said, "we will shoot you unless you go back to trying to kill each other." and all it took here was hours for these men to develop a completely new category of "us," all of us in the trenches here on both sides, dying for no damn reason, and who is a "them," those faceless powers behind the lines who were using them as pawns.and sometimes, change can occur in seconds. probably the most horrifying event in the vietnam war was the my lai massacre. a brigade of american soldiers went into an undefended village full of civilians and killed between 350 and 500 of them, mass-raped women and children, mutilated bodies. it was appalling. it was appalling because it occurred, because the government denied it, because the us government eventually did nothing more than a slap on the wrist, and appalling because it almost certainly was not a singular event. this man, hugh thompson, this is the man who stopped the my lai massacre. he was piloting a helicopter gunship, landed there, got out and saw american soldiers shooting babies, shooting old women, figured out what was going on, and he then took his helicopter and did something that undid his lifetime of conditioning as to who is an "us" and who is a "them." he landed his helicopter in between some surviving villagers and american soldiers and he trained his machine guns on his fellow americans, and said, "if you don't stop the killing, i will mow you down."now, these people are no more special than any of us. same neurons, same neurochemicals, same biology. what we're left with here is this inevitable cliche: "those who don't study history are destined to repeat it." what we have here is the opposite of it. those who don't study the history of extraordinary human change, those who don't study the biology of what can transform us from our worst to our best behaviors, those who don't do this are destined not to be able to repeat these incandescent, magnificent moments.so thank you. ca: talks that really give you a new mental model about something, those are some of my favorite ted talks, and we just got one. robert, thank you so much for that. good luck with the book. that was amazing, and we're going to try and get you to come here in person one year. thank you so much.rs: thank you. thank you all.<title = "Poetry, music and identity">
<tags = "['South America', 'TED en Español', 'composing', 'creativity', 'culture', 'entertainment', 'guitar', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'language', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'poetry', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Musician, poet">
i'm going to tell you the story of a song. i was in madrid one night in 2002 with my teacher and friend joaquín sabina, when he said he had something to give me. he said, "jorge, i have some lines that you need to put into a song. take these down, take these down." i looked on the table but all i found was a circular coaster, on which i wrote the lines my teacher dictated. they were four lines that went like this:"i am a jewish moor living among christians i don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are."those lines really made an impression on me. i said, "what beautiful lyrics, joaquín. did you write them?" he said no, they were by another composer named chicho sánchez ferlosio, who was less known than joaquín, but also a great poet. these lines came to me at a time where i had been wanting to express something for a while, but didn't quite know how.i was getting up to leave and go home to write, when joaquín stopped me and said, "hang on, hang on," and presented me with this challenge: "write the stanzas for this song in décimas." now, at this point in my life, i still wasn't completely sure what décimas were, but i was too embarrassed to tell my teacher i didn't know. so i put on my best "yeah, i totally understand" face, and went home to look up what décimas were. i learned that a décima is a type of verse that only exists in spanish, and that it has 10 lines. it's very, very complex — perhaps the most complex style of stanza that we have in spanish. it also has a very concrete date of origin, which is very rare for a style of stanza.the décima was invented in spain in 1591, by a guy named vicente espinel, a musician and poet from málaga. and listen to this coincidence: he was the same guy who added the sixth string to what would later be called the spanish guitar. this string right here — it's called the "bordona."from spain, the décima, with its 10 lines, crosses over to america, just like the spanish guitar, but in contrast to the décima, the spanish guitar continues to live today on both sides of the atlantic. but the décima, in spain, its birthplace, disappeared; it died out. it died out about 200 years ago, and yet in latin america, from mexico to chile, all our countries maintain some form of the décima in our popular traditions.in each place, they've given it a different name, and set it to different music. it has a lot of different names — more than 20 in total on the continent. in mexico, for example, it's called the "son jarocho," "canto de mejorana" in panama; "galerón" in venezuela; "payada" in uruguay and argentina; "repentismo" in cuba. in peru, they call it the peruvian décima, because the décima becomes so integrated into our traditions, that if someone asks, people from each place are completely convinced that the décima was invented in their country. it's also got a really surprising feature, which is that despite the fact that it developed independently in each of the different countries, it maintains even today, 400 years after its creation, exactly the same rhyme, syllable and line structure — the same structure vicente espinel gave it during the spanish baroque period. here's the structure — i'll give you the basic idea and then later you can look online and learn more about it.the décima is ten lines long; each line has eight syllables. the first line rhymes with the fourth and the fifth; the second line, with the third; the sixth line, with the seventh and the tenth; and the eighth line rhymes with the ninth. it's a bit complicated, to be honest. and me — imagine me, trying to write in décimas. but it's not as complicated as it seems. plus, it's amazing that it's survived with the same structure for more than four centuries. it's not that complicated, because it has an impressive musicality to it, a type of musicality that's very hard to describe technically. i prefer that you listen to it. so i'm going to recite a décima, one of the décimas that i wrote for this song. i'm going to ask that you concentrate just on the musicality of the rhymes. for those of you with headphones on — i see that some of you are listening to the translation — please take them off for a minute.(english) take your headphones off, it you have them.(english) forget about the meaning of the words for a few seconds,(english) and then you'll put them back.(english) forget about the structure.(spanish) forget about the structure.(english) and just ... it's all about the choreography of sound of the décima.(spanish) a choreography of sound.(sings in spanish) "there is not one death that does not cause me pain, there are no winners, here’s nothing but suffering and another life blown away. war is a terrible school no matter what the disguise, forgive me for not enlisting under any flag, any daydream is worth more than a sad piece of cloth."that's a décima.(english) you can put your headphones back on. (english) thank you. i also applaud vicente espinel, because here it is 426 years later, and the décima lives on everywhere in its original state.i wrote three like that one; you just heard the second. i wrote the first one having only recently learned how, and it has some errors in terms of meter, so it's not presentable in its current state. but the one i sang was good, more or less. so: what was it about? what was the meaning behind those lines?i had just returned from doing a concert in israel, and i was very emotional over a problem that hits really close to home, which is the israeli-palestinian conflict. i'll explain: my dad's family is jewish, and my mom's family are non-practicing christians. i was raised in a home where the two traditions lived together more or less in harmony. it wasn't unusual to see my jewish grandpa dressed as santa claus, for example, or to see my non-jewish grandpa at the synagogue wearing his kippah, at family celebrations, wearing the same expression that i probably had when sabina told me — that he had some décima lines for me. for someone raised in that kind of environment, it's especially painful to see the difficulty the opposing parties have in putting themselves in the other side's shoes even for a moment. so that's what i wrote about.i already had the lyrics, i had the form — the décima — and the content. i needed to write the music. i'll give you some context. i had only recently moved from uruguay, where i'm from, to spain. and i was feeling very raw with nostalgia, like many of you here, who are away from home. and i wanted my song to be very, very uruguayan, the most uruguayan type of song there is — the milonga. so now, i had been studying the décima, and after finding out that everyone tried to claim the décima as their own, that it was invented in their country, it made me wonder: what does it mean when we say the milonga is uruguayan?the milonga has a rhythmic pattern that we musicians call 3-3-2.(counts out the beats) one two three, one two three, one two.and it has a characteristic emphasis.(sings)but this characteristic rhythm pattern comes from africa. in the ninth century you could find it in the brothels of persia, and in the thirteenth, in spain, from where, five centuries later, it would cross over to america with the african slaves. meanwhile, in the balkans, it encounters the roma scale —(sings)which in part, gives birth to klezmer music, which ukrainian jewish immigrants bring to brooklyn, new york. they sing it in their banquet halls.(sings "hava nagila")and their neighbor, an argentine kid of italian origin named astor piazzolla, hears it, assimilates it and transforms the tango of the second half of the 20th century with his ...(counts out the beats) one two three, one two three, one two.(sings "adios nonino")he also played it on his bandoneon, a 19th-century german instrument created for churches that couldn't afford to buy organs, and that ends up, incredibly, in río de la plata, forming the very essence of the tango and the milonga, in the very same way another instrument just as important as the bandoneon did: the spanish guitar. to which, by the way, vicente espinel, in the 16th century, added a sixth string. it's amazing how all these things are coming full circle.what have i learned in these 15 years since the song was born from going all over the world with four lines written on a coaster from a bar in madrid? that décimas, the milonga, songs, people — the closer you get to them, the more complex their identity becomes, and the more nuances and details appear. i learned that identity is infinitely dense, like an infinite series of real numbers, and that even if you get very close and zoom in, it never ends.before i sing you a song and say goodbye, allow me to tell you one last story. not long ago, we were in mexico after a concert. and since the concert promoters know me, they knew i was a décima freak and that everywhere i go i ask about it, insisting on hearing décima artists. so they organized a son jarocho show for me at their house. if you recall, the son jarocho is one of the styles of music that uses décimas in its verses.when these amazing musicians finished playing what is for me, something amazing, which is the son jarocho, they finished playing and were ... i went up to greet them, really excited, getting ready to thank them for their gift of music, and this young kid says to me — and he says it with the best of intentions — he says, "we're very proud, sir, to be keeping alive the purest origins of our mexican identity." and to tell you the truth, i didn't really know what to say. i stood there looking at him. i gave him a hug and left, but ... but he was right, too, though. right? in reality, the décima is its origin, but at the same time, just like in the milonga and in the décima, are the roots of many more cultures from all over the place, like he said.later, when i got back to the hotel, i thought about it for a while. and i thought: things only look pure if you look at them from far away. it's very important to know about our roots, to know where we come from, to understand our history. but at the same time, as important as knowing where we're from, is understanding that deep down, we're all from nowhere and a little bit from everywhere.thank you very much. this is "the milonga of the jewish moor."(music)(sings)for every wall a lament in jerusalem the goldenand 100 wasted lives for every commandment.i am dust in your wind and although i bleed through your wound,and every beloved stone has my deepest affection,there is not a stone in the world worth more than a human life.i am a jewish moor who lives among christiansi don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are.i don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are.there is not one death that does not cause me pain, there are no winnersthere's nothing but suffering and another life blown away.war is a terrible school no matter what the disguise,forgive me for not enlisting under any flag,any daydream is worth more than a sad piece of cloth.i am a jewish moor who lives among christiansi don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are.i don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are.and nobody has my permission for killing in my name,a man is but a man and if there is a god, this was his wish,the very ground i tread will live on, once i am goneon my way to oblivion, and all doctrines will suffer the same fate,and there is not one nation that has not proclaimed itselfthe chosen people.i am a jewish moor who lives among christiansi don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are.i don't know who my god is, nor who my brothers are.i am a jewish moor who lives among christians thank you. <title = "How human noise affects ocean habitats">
<tags = "['Anthropocene', 'Senses', 'TEDx', 'animals', 'beauty', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biosphere', 'climate change', 'communication', 'environment', 'nature', 'oceans', 'science', 'sound', 'vocals', 'water']">
<occupation = "Oceanographer">
in 1956, a documentary by jacques cousteau won both the palme d'or and an oscar award. this film was called, "le monde du silence," or, "the silent world." the premise of the title was that the underwater world was a quiet world. we now know, 60 years later, that the underwater world is anything but silent.although the sounds are inaudible above water depending on where you are and the time of year, the underwater soundscape can be as noisy as any jungle or rainforest. invertebrates like snapping shrimp, fish and marine mammals all use sound. they use sound to study their habitat, to keep in communication with each other, to navigate, to detect predators and prey. they also use sound by listening to know something about their environment.take, for an example, the arctic. it's considered a vast, inhospitable place, sometimes described as a desert, because it is so cold and so remote and ice-covered for much of the year. and despite this, there is no place on earth that i would rather be than the arctic, especially as days lengthen and spring comes.to me, the arctic really embodies this disconnect between what we see on the surface and what's going on underwater. you can look out across the ice — all white and blue and cold — and see nothing. but if you could hear underwater, the sounds you would hear would at first amaze and then delight you. and while your eyes are seeing nothing for kilometers but ice, your ears are telling you that out there are bowhead and beluga whales, walrus and bearded seals. the ice, too, makes sounds. it screeches and cracks and pops and groans, as it collides and rubs when temperature or currents or winds change. and under 100 percent sea ice in the dead of winter, bowhead whales are singing.and you would never expect that, because we humans, we tend to be very visual animals. for most of us, but not all, our sense of sight is how we navigate our world. for marine mammals that live underwater, where chemical cues and light transmit poorly, sound is the sense by which they see. and sound transmits very well underwater, much better than it does in air, so signals can be heard over great distances.in the arctic, this is especially important, because not only do arctic marine mammals have to hear each other, but they also have to listen for cues in the environment that might indicate heavy ice ahead or open water. remember, although they spend most of their lives underwater, they are mammals, and so they have to surface to breathe. so they might listen for thin ice or no ice, or listen for echoes off nearby ice.arctic marine mammals live in a rich and varied underwater soundscape. in the spring, it can be a cacophony of sound.(marine mammal sounds)but when the ice is frozen solid, and there are no big temperature shifts or current changes, the underwater arctic has some of the lowest ambient noise levels of the world's oceans. but this is changing. this is primarily due to a decrease in seasonal sea ice, which is a direct result of human greenhouse gas emissions. we are, in effect, with climate change, conducting a completely uncontrolled experiment with our planet.over the past 30 years, areas of the arctic have seen decreases in seasonal sea ice from anywhere from six weeks to four months. this decrease in sea ice is sometimes referred to as an increase in the open water season. that is the time of year when the arctic is navigable to vessels. and not only is the extent of ice changing, but the age and the width of ice is, too.now, you may well have heard that a decrease in seasonal sea ice is causing a loss of habitat for animals that rely on sea ice, such as ice seals, or walrus, or polar bears. decreasing sea ice is also causing increased erosion along coastal villages, and changing prey availability for marine birds and mammals.climate change and decreases in sea ice are also altering the underwater soundscape of the arctic. what do i mean by soundscape? those of us who eavesdrop on the oceans for a living use instruments called hydrophones, which are underwater microphones, and we record ambient noise — the noise all around us. and the soundscape describes the different contributors to this noise field. what we are hearing on our hydrophones are the very real sounds of climate change. we are hearing these changes from three fronts: from the air, from the water and from land.first: air. wind on water creates waves. these waves make bubbles; the bubbles break, and when they do, they make noise. and this noise is like a hiss or a static in the background. in the arctic, when it's ice-covered, most of the noise from wind doesn't make it into the water column, because the ice acts as a buffer between the atmosphere and the water. this is one of the reasons that the arctic can have very low ambient noise levels. but with decreases in seasonal sea ice, not only is the arctic now open to this wave noise, but the number of storms and the intensity of storms in the arctic has been increasing. all of this is raising noise levels in a previously quiet ocean.second: water. with less seasonal sea ice, subarctic species are moving north, and taking advantage of the new habitat that is created by more open water. now, arctic whales, like this bowhead, they have no dorsal fin, because they have evolved to live and swim in ice-covered waters, and having something sticking off of your back is not very conducive to migrating through ice, and may, in fact, be excluding animals from the ice. but now, everywhere we've listened, we're hearing the sounds of fin whales and humpback whales and killer whales, further and further north, and later and later in the season. we are hearing, in essence, an invasion of the arctic by subarctic species. and we don't know what this means. will there be competition for food between arctic and subarctic animals? might these subarctic species introduce diseases or parasites into the arctic? and what are the new sounds that they are producing doing to the soundscape underwater?and third: land. and by land ... i mean people. more open water means increased human use of the arctic. just this past summer, a massive cruise ship made its way through the northwest passage — the once-mythical route between europe and the pacific. decreases in sea ice have allowed humans to occupy the arctic more often. it has allowed increases in oil and gas exploration and extraction, the potential for commercial shipping, as well as increased tourism. and we now know that ship noise increases levels of stress hormones in whales and can disrupt feeding behavior. air guns, which produce loud, low-frequency "whoomps" every 10 to 20 seconds, changed the swimming and vocal behavior of whales. and all of these sound sources are decreasing the acoustic space over which arctic marine mammals can communicate.now, arctic marine mammals are used to very high levels of noise at certain times of the year. but this is primarily from other animals or from sea ice, and these are the sounds with which they've evolved, and these are sounds that are vital to their very survival. these new sounds are loud and they're alien. they might impact the environment in ways that we think we understand, but also in ways that we don't. remember, sound is the most important sense for these animals. and not only is the physical habitat of the arctic changing rapidly, but the acoustic habitat is, too. it's as if we've plucked these animals up from the quiet countryside and dropped them into a big city in the middle of rush hour. and they can't escape it.so what can we do now? we can't decrease wind speeds or keep subarctic animals from migrating north, but we can work on local solutions to reducing human-caused underwater noise. one of these solutions is to slow down ships that traverse the arctic, because a slower ship is a quieter ship. we can restrict access in seasons and regions that are important for mating or feeding or migrating. we can get smarter about quieting ships and find better ways to explore the ocean bottom. and the good news is, there are people working on this right now. but ultimately, we humans have to do the hard work of reversing or at the very least decelerating human-caused atmospheric changes.so, let's return to this idea of a silent world underwater. it's entirely possible that many of the whales swimming in the arctic today, especially long-lived species like the bowhead whale that the inuits say can live two human lives — it's possible that these whales were alive in 1956, when jacques cousteau made his film. and in retrospect, considering all the noise we are creating in the oceans today, perhaps it really was "the silent world."thank you. <title = "Thoughts on humanity, fame and love">
<tags = "['aging', 'art', 'communication', 'dance', 'entertainment', 'family', 'future', 'happiness', 'humanity', 'india', 'love', 'movies', 'music', 'personal growth', 'success', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Actor, producer, activist">
namaskar.i'm a movie star, i'm 51 years of age, and i don't use botox as yet. so i'm clean, but i do behave like you saw like a 21-year-old in my movies. yeah, i do that. i sell dreams, and i peddle love to millions of people back home in india who assume that i'm the best lover in the world. if you don't tell anyone, i'm going to tell you i'm not, but i never let that assumption go away. i've also been made to understand there are lots of you here who haven't seen my work, and i feel really sad for you. that doesn't take away from the fact that i'm completely self-obsessed, as a movie star should be. that's when my friends, chris and juliet called me here to speak about the future "you." naturally, it follows i'm going to speak about the present me. because i truly believe that humanity is a lot like me. it is. it is. it's an aging movie star, grappling with all the newness around itself, wondering whether it got it right in the first place, and still trying to find a way to keep on shining regardless.i was born in a refugee colony in the capital city of india, new delhi. and my father was a freedom fighter. my mother was, well, just a fighter like mothers are. and much like the original homo sapiens, we struggled to survive. when i was in my early 20s, i lost both my parents, which i must admit seems a bit careless of me now, but — i do remember the night my father died, and i remember the driver of a neighbor who was driving us to the hospital. he mumbled something about "dead people don't tip so well" and walked away into the dark. and i was only 14 then, and i put my father's dead body in the back seat of the car, and my mother besides me, i started driving back from the hospital to the house. and in the middle of her quiet crying, my mother looked at me and she said, "son, when did you learn to drive?" and i thought about it and realized, and i said to my mom, "just now, mom." so from that night onwards, much akin to humanity in its adolescence, i learned the crude tools of survival. and the framework of life was very, very simple then, to be honest. you know, you just ate what you got and did whatever you were told to do. i thought celiac was a vegetable, and vegan, of course, was mr. spock's lost comrade in "star trek." you married the first girl that you dated, and you were a techie if you could fix the carburetor in your car. i really thought that gay was a sophisticated english word for happy. and lesbian, of course, was the capital of portugal, as you all know. where was i? we relied on systems created through the toil and sacrifice of generations before to protect us, and we felt that governments actually worked for our betterment. science was simple and logical, apple was still then just a fruit owned by eve first and then newton, not by steve jobs, until then. and "eureka!" was what you screamed when you wanted to run naked on the streets. you went wherever life took you for work, and people were mostly welcoming of you. migration was a term then still reserved for siberian cranes, not human beings. most importantly, you were who you were and you said what you thought.then in my late 20s, i shifted to the sprawling metropolis of mumbai, and my framework, like the newly industrialized aspirational humanity, began to alter. in the urban rush for a new, more embellished survival, things started to look a little different. i met people who had descended from all over the world, faces, races, genders, money-lenders. definitions became more and more fluid. work began to define you at that time in an overwhelmingly equalizing manner, and all the systems started to feel less reliable to me, almost too thick to hold on to the diversity of mankind and the human need to progress and grow. ideas were flowing with more freedom and speed. and i experienced the miracle of human innovation and cooperation, and my own creativity, when supported by the resourcefulness of this collective endeavor, catapulted me into superstardom.i started to feel that i had arrived, and generally, by the time i was 40, i was really, really flying. i was all over the place. you know? i'd done 50 films by then and 200 songs, and i'd been knighted by the malaysians. i had been given the highest civil honor by the french government, the title of which for the life of me i can't pronounce even until now. i'm sorry, france, and thank you, france, for doing that. but much bigger than that, i got to meet angelina jolie — for two and a half seconds. and i'm sure she also remembers that encounter somewhere. ok, maybe not. and i sat next to hannah montana on a round dinner table with her back towards me most of the time. like i said, i was flying, from miley to jolie, and humanity was soaring with me. we were both pretty much flying off the handle, actually.and then you all know what happened. the internet happened. i was in my late 40s, and i started tweeting like a canary in a birdcage and assuming that, you know, people who peered into my world would admire it for the miracle i believed it to be. but something else awaited me and humanity. you know, we had expected an expansion of ideas and dreams with the enhanced connectivity of the world. we had not bargained for the village-like enclosure of thought, of judgment, of definition that flowed from the same place that freedom and revolution was taking place in. everything i said took a new meaning. everything i did — good, bad, ugly — was there for the world to comment upon and judge. as a matter of fact, everything i didn't say or do also met with the same fate.four years ago, my lovely wife gauri and me decided to have a third child. it was claimed on the net that he was the love child of our first child who was 15 years old. apparently, he had sown his wild oats with a girl while driving her car in romania. and yeah, there was a fake video to go with it. and we were so disturbed as a family. my son, who is 19 now, even now when you say "hello" to him, he just turns around and says, "but bro, i didn't even have a european driving license." yeah. in this new world, slowly, reality became virtual and virtual became real, and i started to feel that i could not be who i wanted to be or say what i actually thought, and humanity at this time completely identified with me. i think both of us were going through our midlife crisis, and humanity, like me, was becoming an overexposed prima donna. i started to sell everything, from hair oil to diesel generators. humanity was buying everything from crude oil to nuclear reactors. you know, i even tried to get into a skintight superhero suit to reinvent myself. i must admit i failed miserably. and just an aside i want to say on behalf of all the batmen, spider-men and supermen of the world, you have to commend them, because it really hurts in the crotch, that superhero suit. yeah, i'm being honest. i need to tell you this here. really. and accidentally, i happened to even invent a new dance form which i didn't realize, and it became a rage. so if it's all right, and you've seen a bit of me, so i'm quite shameless, i'll show you. it was called the lungi dance. so if it's all right, i'll just show you. i'm talented otherwise.(cheers)so it went something like this.lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi dance. lungi.that's it. it became a rage.(cheers)it really did. like you notice, nobody could make any sense of what was happening except me, and i didn't give a damn, really, because the whole world, and whole humanity, seemed as confused and lost as i was. i didn't give up then. i even tried to reconstruct my identity on the social media like everyone else does. i thought if i put on philosophical tweets out there people will think i'm with it, but some of the responses i got from those tweets were extremely confusing acronyms which i didn't understand. you know? rofl, lol. "adidas," somebody wrote back to one of my more thought-provoking tweets and i was wondering why would you name a sneaker, i mean, why would you write back the name of a sneaker to me? and i asked my 16-year-old daughter, and she enlightened me. "adidas" now means "all day i dream about sex." really. i didn't know if you know that. so i wrote back, "wtf" in bold to mr. adidas, thanking secretly that some acronyms and things won't change at all. wtf.but here we are. i am 51 years old, like i told you, and mind-numbing acronyms notwithstanding, i just want to tell you if there has been a momentous time for humanity to exist, it is now, because the present you is brave. the present you is hopeful. the present you is innovative and resourceful, and of course, the present you is annoyingly indefinable. and in this spell-binding, imperfect moment of existence, feeling a little brave just before i came here, i decided to take a good, hard look at my face. and i realized that i'm beginning to look more and more like the wax statue of me at madame tussaud's. yeah, and in that moment of realization, i asked the most central and pertinent question to humanity and me: do i need to fix my face? really. i'm an actor, like i told you, a modern expression of human creativity. the land i come from is the source of inexplicable but very simple spirituality. in its immense generosity, india decided somehow that i, the muslim son of a broke freedom fighter who accidentally ventured into the business of selling dreams, should become its king of romance, the "badhshah of bollywood," the greatest lover the country has ever seen ... with this face. yeah. which has alternately been described as ugly, unconventional, and strangely, not chocolatey enough. the people of this ancient land embraced me in their limitless love, and i've learned from these people that neither power nor poverty can make your life more magical or less tortuous. i've learned from the people of my country that the dignity of a life, a human being, a culture, a religion, a country actually resides in its ability for grace and compassion. i've learned that whatever moves you, whatever urges you to create, to build, whatever keeps you from failing, whatever helps you survive, is perhaps the oldest and the simplest emotion known to mankind, and that is love. a mystic poet from my land famously wrote,(recites poem in hindi)(poem ends)which loosely translates into that whatever — yeah, if you know hindi, please clap, yeah. it's very difficult to remember. which loosely translates into actually saying that all the books of knowledge that you might read and then go ahead and impart your knowledge through innovation, through creativity, through technology, but mankind will never be the wiser about its future unless it is coupled with a sense of love and compassion for their fellow beings. the two and a half alphabets which form the word "प्रेम," which means "love," if you are able to understand that and practice it, that itself is enough to enlighten mankind. so i truly believe the future "you" has to be a you that loves. otherwise it will cease to flourish. it will perish in its own self-absorption.so you may use your power to build walls and keep people outside, or you may use it to break barriers and welcome them in. you may use your faith to make people afraid and terrify them into submission, or you can use it to give courage to people so they rise to the greatest heights of enlightenment. you can use your energy to build nuclear bombs and spread the darkness of destruction, or you can use it to spread the joy of light to millions. you may filthy up the oceans callously and cut down all the forests. you can destroy the ecology, or turn to them with love and regenerate life from the waters and trees. you may land on mars and build armed citadels, or you may look for life-forms and species to learn from and respect. and you can use all the moneys we all have earned to wage futile wars and give guns in the hands of little children to kill each other with, or you can use it to make more food to fill their stomachs with.my country has taught me the capacity for a human being to love is akin to godliness. it shines forth in a world which civilization, i think, already has tampered too much with. in the last few days, the talks here, the wonderful people coming and showing their talent, talking about individual achievements, the innovation, the technology, the sciences, the knowledge we are gaining by being here in the presence of ted talks and all of you are reasons enough for us to celebrate the future "us." but within that celebration the quest to cultivate our capacity for love and compassion has to assert itself, has to assert itself, just as equally.so i believe the future "you" is an infinite you. it's called a chakra in india, like a circle. it ends where it begins from to complete itself. a you that perceives time and space differently understands both your unimaginable and fantastic importance and your complete unimportance in the larger context of the universe. a you that returns back to the original innocence of humanity, which loves from the purity of heart, which sees from the eyes of truth, which dreams from the clarity of an untampered mind.the future "you" has to be like an aging movie star who has been made to believe that there is a possibility of a world which is completely, wholly, self-obsessively in love with itself. a world — really, it has to be a you to create a world which is its own best lover. that i believe, ladies and gentlemen, should be the future "you."thank you very much. shukriya. thank you. thank you. <title = "3 principles for creating safer AI">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'choice', 'code', 'communication', 'computers', 'data', 'future', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'machine learning', 'morality', 'programming', 'robots', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "AI expert">
this is lee sedol. lee sedol is one of the world's greatest go players, and he's having what my friends in silicon valley call a "holy cow" moment — a moment where we realize that ai is actually progressing a lot faster than we expected. so humans have lost on the go board. what about the real world?well, the real world is much bigger, much more complicated than the go board. it's a lot less visible, but it's still a decision problem. and if we think about some of the technologies that are coming down the pike ... noriko [arai] mentioned that reading is not yet happening in machines, at least with understanding. but that will happen, and when that happens, very soon afterwards, machines will have read everything that the human race has ever written. and that will enable machines, along with the ability to look further ahead than humans can, as we've already seen in go, if they also have access to more information, they'll be able to make better decisions in the real world than we can. so is that a good thing? well, i hope so.our entire civilization, everything that we value, is based on our intelligence. and if we had access to a lot more intelligence, then there's really no limit to what the human race can do. and i think this could be, as some people have described it, the biggest event in human history. so why are people saying things like this, that ai might spell the end of the human race? is this a new thing? is it just elon musk and bill gates and stephen hawking?actually, no. this idea has been around for a while. here's a quotation: "even if we could keep the machines in a subservient position, for instance, by turning off the power at strategic moments" — and i'll come back to that "turning off the power" idea later on — "we should, as a species, feel greatly humbled." so who said this? this is alan turing in 1951. alan turing, as you know, is the father of computer science and in many ways, the father of ai as well. so if we think about this problem, the problem of creating something more intelligent than your own species, we might call this "the gorilla problem," because gorillas' ancestors did this a few million years ago, and now we can ask the gorillas: was this a good idea?so here they are having a meeting to discuss whether it was a good idea, and after a little while, they conclude, no, this was a terrible idea. our species is in dire straits. in fact, you can see the existential sadness in their eyes. so this queasy feeling that making something smarter than your own species is maybe not a good idea — what can we do about that? well, really nothing, except stop doing ai, and because of all the benefits that i mentioned and because i'm an ai researcher, i'm not having that. i actually want to be able to keep doing ai.so we actually need to nail down the problem a bit more. what exactly is the problem? why is better ai possibly a catastrophe?so here's another quotation: "we had better be quite sure that the purpose put into the machine is the purpose which we really desire." this was said by norbert wiener in 1960, shortly after he watched one of the very early learning systems learn to play checkers better than its creator. but this could equally have been said by king midas. king midas said, "i want everything i touch to turn to gold," and he got exactly what he asked for. that was the purpose that he put into the machine, so to speak, and then his food and his drink and his relatives turned to gold and he died in misery and starvation. so we'll call this "the king midas problem" of stating an objective which is not, in fact, truly aligned with what we want. in modern terms, we call this "the value alignment problem."putting in the wrong objective is not the only part of the problem. there's another part. if you put an objective into a machine, even something as simple as, "fetch the coffee," the machine says to itself, "well, how might i fail to fetch the coffee? someone might switch me off. ok, i have to take steps to prevent that. i will disable my 'off' switch. i will do anything to defend myself against interference with this objective that i have been given." so this single-minded pursuit in a very defensive mode of an objective that is, in fact, not aligned with the true objectives of the human race — that's the problem that we face. and in fact, that's the high-value takeaway from this talk. if you want to remember one thing, it's that you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead. it's very simple. just remember that. repeat it to yourself three times a day. and in fact, this is exactly the plot of "2001: [a space odyssey]" hal has an objective, a mission, which is not aligned with the objectives of the humans, and that leads to this conflict. now fortunately, hal is not superintelligent. he's pretty smart, but eventually dave outwits him and manages to switch him off. but we might not be so lucky. so what are we going to do?i'm trying to redefine ai to get away from this classical notion of machines that intelligently pursue objectives. there are three principles involved. the first one is a principle of altruism, if you like, that the robot's only objective is to maximize the realization of human objectives, of human values. and by values here i don't mean touchy-feely, goody-goody values. i just mean whatever it is that the human would prefer their life to be like. and so this actually violates asimov's law that the robot has to protect its own existence. it has no interest in preserving its existence whatsoever.the second law is a law of humility, if you like. and this turns out to be really important to make robots safe. it says that the robot does not know what those human values are, so it has to maximize them, but it doesn't know what they are. and that avoids this problem of single-minded pursuit of an objective. this uncertainty turns out to be crucial.now, in order to be useful to us, it has to have some idea of what we want. it obtains that information primarily by observation of human choices, so our own choices reveal information about what it is that we prefer our lives to be like. so those are the three principles. let's see how that applies to this question of: "can you switch the machine off?" as turing suggested.so here's a pr2 robot. this is one that we have in our lab, and it has a big red "off" switch right on the back. the question is: is it going to let you switch it off? if we do it the classical way, we give it the objective of, "fetch the coffee, i must fetch the coffee, i can't fetch the coffee if i'm dead," so obviously the pr2 has been listening to my talk, and so it says, therefore, "i must disable my 'off' switch, and probably taser all the other people in starbucks who might interfere with me." so this seems to be inevitable, right? this kind of failure mode seems to be inevitable, and it follows from having a concrete, definite objective.so what happens if the machine is uncertain about the objective? well, it reasons in a different way. it says, "ok, the human might switch me off, but only if i'm doing something wrong. well, i don't really know what wrong is, but i know that i don't want to do it." so that's the first and second principles right there. "so i should let the human switch me off." and in fact you can calculate the incentive that the robot has to allow the human to switch it off, and it's directly tied to the degree of uncertainty about the underlying objective.and then when the machine is switched off, that third principle comes into play. it learns something about the objectives it should be pursuing, because it learns that what it did wasn't right. in fact, we can, with suitable use of greek symbols, as mathematicians usually do, we can actually prove a theorem that says that such a robot is provably beneficial to the human. you are provably better off with a machine that's designed in this way than without it. so this is a very simple example, but this is the first step in what we're trying to do with human-compatible ai.now, this third principle, i think is the one that you're probably scratching your head over. you're probably thinking, "well, you know, i behave badly. i don't want my robot to behave like me. i sneak down in the middle of the night and take stuff from the fridge. i do this and that." there's all kinds of things you don't want the robot doing. but in fact, it doesn't quite work that way. just because you behave badly doesn't mean the robot is going to copy your behavior. it's going to understand your motivations and maybe help you resist them, if appropriate. but it's still difficult. what we're trying to do, in fact, is to allow machines to predict for any person and for any possible life that they could live, and the lives of everybody else: which would they prefer? and there are many, many difficulties involved in doing this; i don't expect that this is going to get solved very quickly. the real difficulties, in fact, are us.as i have already mentioned, we behave badly. in fact, some of us are downright nasty. now the robot, as i said, doesn't have to copy the behavior. the robot does not have any objective of its own. it's purely altruistic. and it's not designed just to satisfy the desires of one person, the user, but in fact it has to respect the preferences of everybody. so it can deal with a certain amount of nastiness, and it can even understand that your nastiness, for example, you may take bribes as a passport official because you need to feed your family and send your kids to school. it can understand that; it doesn't mean it's going to steal. in fact, it'll just help you send your kids to school.we are also computationally limited. lee sedol is a brilliant go player, but he still lost. so if we look at his actions, he took an action that lost the game. that doesn't mean he wanted to lose. so to understand his behavior, we actually have to invert through a model of human cognition that includes our computational limitations — a very complicated model. but it's still something that we can work on understanding.probably the most difficult part, from my point of view as an ai researcher, is the fact that there are lots of us, and so the machine has to somehow trade off, weigh up the preferences of many different people, and there are different ways to do that. economists, sociologists, moral philosophers have understood that, and we are actively looking for collaboration.let's have a look and see what happens when you get that wrong. so you can have a conversation, for example, with your intelligent personal assistant that might be available in a few years' time. think of a siri on steroids. so siri says, "your wife called to remind you about dinner tonight." and of course, you've forgotten. "what? what dinner? what are you talking about?""uh, your 20th anniversary at 7pm.""i can't do that. i'm meeting with the secretary-general at 7:30. how could this have happened?""well, i did warn you, but you overrode my recommendation.""well, what am i going to do? i can't just tell him i'm too busy.""don't worry. i arranged for his plane to be delayed." "some kind of computer malfunction." "really? you can do that?""he sends his profound apologies and looks forward to meeting you for lunch tomorrow." so the values here — there's a slight mistake going on. this is clearly following my wife's values which is "happy wife, happy life." it could go the other way. you could come home after a hard day's work, and the computer says, "long day?""yes, i didn't even have time for lunch.""you must be very hungry.""starving, yeah. could you make some dinner?""there's something i need to tell you." "there are humans in south sudan who are in more urgent need than you." "so i'm leaving. make your own dinner." so we have to solve these problems, and i'm looking forward to working on them.there are reasons for optimism. one reason is, there is a massive amount of data. because remember — i said they're going to read everything the human race has ever written. most of what we write about is human beings doing things and other people getting upset about it. so there's a massive amount of data to learn from.there's also a very strong economic incentive to get this right. so imagine your domestic robot's at home. you're late from work again and the robot has to feed the kids, and the kids are hungry and there's nothing in the fridge. and the robot sees the cat. and the robot hasn't quite learned the human value function properly, so it doesn't understand the sentimental value of the cat outweighs the nutritional value of the cat. so then what happens? well, it happens like this: "deranged robot cooks kitty for family dinner." that one incident would be the end of the domestic robot industry. so there's a huge incentive to get this right long before we reach superintelligent machines.so to summarize: i'm actually trying to change the definition of ai so that we have provably beneficial machines. and the principles are: machines that are altruistic, that want to achieve only our objectives, but that are uncertain about what those objectives are, and will watch all of us to learn more about what it is that we really want. and hopefully in the process, we will learn to be better people. thank you very much. chris anderson: so interesting, stuart. we're going to stand here a bit because i think they're setting up for our next speaker.a couple of questions. so the idea of programming in ignorance seems intuitively really powerful. as you get to superintelligence, what's going to stop a robot reading literature and discovering this idea that knowledge is actually better than ignorance and still just shifting its own goals and rewriting that programming?stuart russell: yes, so we want it to learn more, as i said, about our objectives. it'll only become more certain as it becomes more correct, so the evidence is there and it's going to be designed to interpret it correctly. it will understand, for example, that books are very biased in the evidence they contain. they only talk about kings and princes and elite white male people doing stuff. so it's a complicated problem, but as it learns more about our objectives it will become more and more useful to us.ca: and you couldn't just boil it down to one law, you know, hardwired in: "if any human ever tries to switch me off, i comply. i comply."sr: absolutely not. that would be a terrible idea. so imagine that you have a self-driving car and you want to send your five-year-old off to preschool. do you want your five-year-old to be able to switch off the car while it's driving along? probably not. so it needs to understand how rational and sensible the person is. the more rational the person, the more willing you are to be switched off. if the person is completely random or even malicious, then you're less willing to be switched off.ca: all right. stuart, can i just say, i really, really hope you figure this out for us. thank you so much for that talk. that was amazing.sr: thank you. <title = "What makes life worth living in the face of death">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'cancer', 'communication', 'compassion', 'death', 'family', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'illness', 'love', 'medicine', 'meditation', 'personal growth', 'poetry', 'relationships', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Caregiver">
a few days after my husband paul was diagnosed with stage iv lung cancer, we were lying in our bed at home, and paul said, "it's going to be ok." and i remember answering back, "yes. we just don't know what ok means yet."paul and i had met as first-year medical students at yale. he was smart and kind and super funny. he used to keep a gorilla suit in the trunk of his car, and he'd say, "it's for emergencies only." i fell in love with paul as i watched the care he took with his patients. he stayed late talking with them, seeking to understand the experience of illness and not just its technicalities. he later told me he fell in love with me when he saw me cry over an ekg of a heart that had ceased beating. we didn't know it yet, but even in the heady days of young love, we were learning how to approach suffering together.we got married and became doctors. i was working as an internist and paul was finishing his training as a neurosurgeon when he started to lose weight. he developed excruciating back pain and a cough that wouldn't go away. and when he was admitted to the hospital, a ct scan revealed tumors in paul's lungs and in his bones. we had both cared for patients with devastating diagnoses; now it was our turn.we lived with paul's illness for 22 months. he wrote a memoir about facing mortality. i gave birth to our daughter cady, and we loved her and each other. we learned directly how to struggle through really tough medical decisions. the day we took paul into the hospital for the last time was the most difficult day of my life. when he turned to me at the end and said, "i'm ready," i knew that wasn't just a brave decision. it was the right one. paul didn't want a ventilator and cpr. in that moment, the most important thing to paul was to hold our baby daughter. nine hours later, paul died.i've always thought of myself as a caregiver — most physicians do — and taking care of paul deepened what that meant. watching him reshape his identity during his illness, learning to witness and accept his pain, talking together through his choices — those experiences taught me that resilience does not mean bouncing back to where you were before, or pretending that the hard stuff isn't hard. it is so hard. it's painful, messy stuff. but it's the stuff. and i learned that when we approach it together, we get to decide what success looks like.one of the first things paul said to me after his diagnosis was, "i want you to get remarried." and i was like, whoa, i guess we get to say anything out loud. it was so shocking and heartbreaking ... and generous, and really comforting because it was so starkly honest, and that honesty turned out to be exactly what we needed. early in paul's illness, we agreed we would just keep saying things out loud. tasks like making a will, or completing our advance directives — tasks that i had always avoided — were not as daunting as they once seemed. i realized that completing an advance directive is an act of love — like a wedding vow. a pact to take care of someone, codifying the promise that til death do us part, i will be there. if needed, i will speak for you. i will honor your wishes. that paperwork became a tangible part of our love story.as physicians, paul and i were in a good position to understand and even accept his diagnosis. we weren't angry about it, luckily, because we'd seen so many patients in devastating situations, and we knew that death is a part of life. but it's one thing to know that; it was a very different experience to actually live with the sadness and uncertainty of a serious illness. huge strides are being made against lung cancer, but we knew that paul likely had months to a few years left to live.during that time, paul wrote about his transition from doctor to patient. he talked about feeling like he was suddenly at a crossroads, and how he would have thought he'd be able to see the path, that because he treated so many patients, maybe he could follow in their footsteps. but he was totally disoriented. rather than a path, paul wrote, "i saw instead only a harsh, vacant, gleaming white desert. as if a sandstorm had erased all familiarity. i had to face my mortality and try to understand what made my life worth living, and i needed my oncologist's help to do so."the clinicians taking care of paul gave me an even deeper appreciation for my colleagues in health care. we have a tough job. we're responsible for helping patients have clarity around their prognoses and their treatment options, and that's never easy, but it's especially tough when you're dealing with potentially terminal illnesses like cancer. some people don't want to know how long they have left, others do. either way, we never have those answers. sometimes we substitute hope by emphasizing the best-case scenario. in a survey of physicians, 55 percent said they painted a rosier picture than their honest opinion when describing a patient's prognosis. it's an instinct born out of kindness. but researchers have found that when people better understand the possible outcomes of an illness, they have less anxiety, greater ability to plan and less trauma for their families.families can struggle with those conversations, but for us, we also found that information immensely helpful with big decisions. most notably, whether to have a baby. months to a few years meant paul was not likely to see her grow up. but he had a good chance of being there for her birth and for the beginning of her life. i remember asking paul if he thought having to say goodbye to a child would make dying even more painful. and his answer astounded me. he said, "wouldn't it be great if it did?" and we did it. not in order to spite cancer, but because we were learning that living fully means accepting suffering.paul's oncologist tailored his chemo so he could continue working as a neurosurgeon, which initially we thought was totally impossible. when the cancer advanced and paul shifted from surgery to writing, his palliative care doctor prescribed a stimulant medication so he could be more focused. they asked paul about his priorities and his worries. they asked him what trade-offs he was willing to make. those conversations are the best way to ensure that your health care matches your values. paul joked that it's not like that "birds and bees" talk you have with your parents, where you all get it over with as quickly as possible, and then pretend it never happened. you revisit the conversation as things change. you keep saying things out loud. i'm forever grateful because paul's clinicians felt that their job wasn't to try to give us answers they didn't have, or only to try to fix things for us, but to counsel paul through painful choices ... when his body was failing but his will to live wasn't.later, after paul died, i received a dozen bouquets of flowers, but i sent just one ... to paul's oncologist, because she supported his goals and she helped him weigh his choices. she knew that living means more than just staying alive.a few weeks ago, a patient came into my clinic. a woman dealing with a serious chronic disease. and while we were talking about her life and her health care, she said, "i love my palliative care team. they taught me that it's ok to say 'no'." yeah, i thought, of course it is. but many patients don't feel that. compassion and choices did a study where they asked people about their health care preferences. and a lot of people started their answers with the words "well, if i had a choice ..." if i had a choice. and when i read that "if," i understood better why one in four people receives excessive or unwanted medical treatment, or watches a family member receive excessive or unwanted medical treatment. it's not because doctors don't get it. we do. we understand the real psychological consequences on patients and their families. the things is, we deal with them, too. half of critical care nurses and a quarter of icu doctors have considered quitting their jobs because of distress over feeling that for some of their patients, they've provided care that didn't fit with the person's values. but doctors can't make sure your wishes are respected until they know what they are.would you want to be on life support if it offered any chance of longer life? are you most worried about the quality of that time, rather than quantity? both of those choices are thoughtful and brave, but for all of us, it's our choice. that's true at the end of life and for medical care throughout our lives. if you're pregnant, do you want genetic screening? is a knee replacement right or not? do you want to do dialysis in a clinic or at home? the answer is: it depends. what medical care will help you live the way you want to? i hope you remember that question the next time you face a decision in your health care. remember that you always have a choice, and it is ok to say no to a treatment that's not right for you.there's a poem by w.s. merwin — it's just two sentences long — that captures how i feel now. "your absence has gone through me like thread through a needle. everything i do is stitched with its color." for me that poem evokes my love for paul, and a new fortitude that came from loving and losing him.when paul said, "it's going to be ok," that didn't mean that we could cure his illness. instead, we learned to accept both joy and sadness at the same time; to uncover beauty and purpose both despite and because we are all born and we all die. and for all the sadness and sleepless nights, it turns out there is joy. i leave flowers on paul's grave and watch our two-year-old run around on the grass. i build bonfires on the beach and watch the sunset with our friends. exercise and mindfulness meditation have helped a lot. and someday, i hope i do get remarried.most importantly, i get to watch our daughter grow. i've thought a lot about what i'm going to say to her when she's older. "cady, engaging in the full range of experience — living and dying, love and loss — is what we get to do. being human doesn't happen despite suffering. it happens within it. when we approach suffering together, when we choose not to hide from it, our lives don't diminish, they expand."i've learned that cancer isn't always a battle. or if it is, maybe it's a fight for something different than we thought. our job isn't to fight fate, but to help each other through. not as soldiers but as shepherds. that's how we make it ok, even when it's not. by saying it out loud, by helping each other through ... and a gorilla suit never hurts, either.thank you. <title = "A climate solution where all sides can win">
<tags = "['big problems', 'business', 'china', 'climate change', 'economics', 'global issues', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'policy', 'politics', 'pollution', 'society']">
<occupation = "Policy entrepreneur, climate expert, author">
i have a two-year-old daughter named naya who is under the mistaken impression that this conference is named in honor of her father. who am i to contradict my baby girl?as many of you know, there's something about becoming a parent that concentrates the mind on long-term problems like climate change. it was the birth of my daughter that inspired me to launch this climate organization, in order to counteract the excessive polarization of this issue in the united states, and to find a conservative pathway forward. yes, folks, a republican climate solution is possible, and you know what? it may even be better. let me try to prove that to you.what we really need is a killer app to climate policy. in the technology world, a killer app is an application so transformative that it creates its own market, like uber. in the climate world, a killer app is a new solution so promising that it can break through the seemingly insurmountable barriers to progress. these include the psychological barrier. climate advocates have long been encouraging their fellow citizens to make short-term sacrifices now for benefits that accrue to other people in other countries 30 or 40 years in the future. it just doesn't fly because it runs contrary to basic human nature.next is the geopolitical barrier. under the current rules of global trade, countries have a strong incentive to free ride off the emissions reductions of other nations, instead of strengthening their own programs. this has been the curse of every international climate negotiations, including paris. finally, we have the partisan barrier. even the most committed countries — germany, the united kingdom, canada — are nowhere near reducing emissions at the required scale and speed. not even close. and the partisan climate divide is far more acute here in the united states. we are fundamentally stuck, and that is why we need a killer app of climate policy to break through each of these barriers.i'm convinced that the road to climate progress in the united states runs through the republican party and the business community. so in launching the climate leadership council, i started by reaching out to a who's who of republican elder statesmen and business leaders, including james baker and george schultz, the two most respected republican elder statesmen in america; martin feldstein and greg mankiw, the two most respected conservative economists in the country; and henry paulson and rob walton, two of the most successful and admired business leaders. together, we co-authored "the conservative case for carbon dividends." this represents the first time that republican leaders put forth a concrete market-based climate solution. thank you. we presented our plan at the white house two weeks after president trump moved in. almost every leading editorial board in the country has since endorsed our plan, and fortune 100 companies from a wide range of industries are now getting behind it. so by now you're probably wondering, what exactly is this plan?well, our carbon dividends solution is based on four pillars. the first is a gradually rising carbon tax. although capitalism is a wonderful system, like many operating systems, it's prone to bugs, which, in this case, are called "market failures." by far the largest is that market prices fail to take social and environmental costs into account. that means every market transaction is based on incorrect information. this fundamental bug of capitalism, more than any other single factor, is to blame for our climate predicament.now in theory, this should be an easy problem to fix. economists agree that the best solution is to put a price on the carbon content of fossil fuels, otherwise known as a carbon tax. this would discourage carbon emissions in every single economic transaction, every day of the year. however, a carbon tax by itself has proven to be unpopular and a political dead end. the answer is to return all the money raised directly to citizens, in the form of equal monthly dividends. this would transform an unpopular carbon tax into a popular and populist solution, and it would also solve the underlying psychological barrier that we discussed, by giving everyone a concrete benefit in the here and now.and these benefits would be significant. assuming a carbon tax rate that starts at 40 dollars per ton, a family of four would receive 2,000 dollars per year from the get-go. according to the us treasury department, the bottom 70 percent of americans would receive more in dividends than they would pay in increased energy prices. that means 223 million americans would win economically from solving climate change. and that — is revolutionary, and could fundamentally alter climate politics.but there's another revolutionary element here. the amount of the dividend would grow as the carbon tax rate increases. the more we protect our climate, the more our citizens benefit. this creates a positive feedback loop, which is crucial, because the only way we will reach our long-term emission-reduction goals is if the carbon tax rate goes up every year.the third pillar of our program is eliminating regulations that are no longer needed once a carbon dividends plan is enacted. this is a key selling point to republicans and business leaders. so why should we trade climate regulations for a price on carbon? well, let me show you. our plan would achieve nearly twice the emissions reductions of all obama-era climate regulations combined, and nearly three times the new baseline after president trump repeals all of those regulations. that assumes a carbon tax starting at 40 dollars per ton, which translates into roughly an extra 36 cents per gallon of gas. our plan by itself would meet the high end of america's commitment under the paris climate agreement, and as you can see, the emissions reductions would continue over time. this illustrates the power of a conservative climate solution based on free markets and limited government. we would end up with less regulation and far less pollution at the same time, while helping working-class americans get ahead. doesn't that sound like something we could all support? the fourth and final pillar of our program is a new climate domino effect, based on border carbon adjustments. now that may sound complicated, but it, too, is revolutionary, because it provides us a whole new strategy to reach a global price on carbon, which is ultimately what we need. let me show you an example. suppose country a adopts a carbon dividends plan, and country b does not. well, to level the playing field and protect the competitiveness of its industries, country a would tax imports from country b based on their carbon content. fair enough. but here's where it gets really interesting, because the money raised at the border would increase the dividends going to the citizens of country a. well, how long do you think it would take the public in country b to realize that that money should be going to them, and to push for a carbon dividends plan in their own land? add a few more countries, and we get a new climate domino effect.once one major country or region adopts carbon dividends with border carbon adjustments, other countries are compelled to follow suit. one by one the dominoes fall. and this domino effect could start anywhere. my preference, strongly, is the united states, but it could also start in the united kingdom, in germany or another european country, or even in china.let's take china as an example. china is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but what its leaders care even more about is transitioning their economy to consumer-led economic development. well, nothing could do more to hasten that transition than giving every chinese citizen a monthly dividend. in fact, this is the only policy solution that would enable china to meet its environmental and economic goals at the same time.that's why this is the killer app of climate policy, because it would enable us to overcome each of the barriers we discussed earlier: the psychological barrier, the partisan barrier, and, as we've just seen, the geopolitical barrier. all we need is a country to lead the way. and one method of finding what you're looking for is to take out an ad. so let's read this one together.wanted: country to pioneer carbon dividends plan. cost to country: zero. starting date: as soon as possible. advantages: most effective climate solution, popular and populist, pro-growth and pro-business, shrinks government and helps the working class. additional compensation: gratitude of current and future generations, including my daughter.thank you. chris anderson: just one question for you, ted. i'm actually not sure i've seen a conservative get a standing o at ted before that. that's pretty cool. the logic seems really powerful, but some people you talk to in politics say it's hard to imagine this still getting through congress. how are you feeling about momentum behind this?ted halstead: so i understand that many are very pessimistic about what's happening in the united states with president trump. i'm less pessimistic; here's why. the actions of this white house, the early actions on climate, are just the first move in a complex game of climate chess. so far it's been a repeal-only strategy; the pressure is going to mount for a replacement program, which is where we come in. and there are three reasons why, which i'll go through real quickly.one, the business community is fundamentally parting ways with the white house on climate change. in fact, we're finding a number of fortune 100 companies supporting our program. within two months, we're going to be announcing some really surprising names coming out in favor of this program. two, there is no issue in american politics where there's a more fundamental gap between the republican base and the republican leadership than climate change. and three, thinking of this analogy of chess, the big decision up ahead is: does the administration stay in paris? well, let's pan it out both ways. if it stays in paris, as many are pushing for in the administration, well then that begs a question: what's the plan? we have the plan. but if they don't stay in paris, the international pressure will be overwhelming. our secretary of state will be asking other countries for nato contributions, and they'll be saying, "no, give us our paris commitment. come through on your commitments, we'll come through on ours."so, international, business and even the republican base will all be calling for a republican replacement plan. and, hopefully, we've provided one.ca: thank you so much, ted.th: thank you, chris. <title = "Why school should start later for teens">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'children', 'community', 'education', 'health', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'policy', 'science', 'sleep', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Sleep researcher">
it's six o'clock in the morning, pitch black outside. my 14-year-old son is fast asleep in his bed, sleeping the reckless, deep sleep of a teenager. i flip on the light and physically shake the poor boy awake, because i know that, like ripping off a band-aid, it's better to get it over with quickly. i have a friend who yells "fire!" just to rouse her sleeping teen. and another who got so fed up that she had to dump cold water on her son's head just to get him out of bed. sound brutal ... but perhaps familiar?every morning i ask myself, "how can i — knowing what i know and doing what i do for a living — be doing this to my own son?" you see, i'm a sleep researcher. so i know far too much about sleep and the consequences of sleep loss. i know that i'm depriving my son of the sleep he desperately needs as a rapidly growing teenager. i also know that by waking him up hours before his natural biological clock tells him he's ready, i'm literally robbing him of his dreams — the type of sleep most associated with learning, memory consolidation and emotional processing.but it's not just my kid that's being deprived of sleep. sleep deprivation among american teenagers is an epidemic. only about one in 10 gets the eight to 10 hours of sleep per night recommended by sleep scientists and pediatricians. now, if you're thinking to yourself, "phew, we're doing good, my kid's getting eight hours," remember, eight hours is the minimum recommendation. you're barely passing. eight hours is kind of like getting a c on your report card.there are many factors contributing to this epidemic, but a major factor preventing teens from getting the sleep they need is actually a matter of public policy. not hormones, social lives or snapchat. across the country, many schools are starting around 7:30am or earlier, despite the fact that major medical organizations recommend that middle and high school start no earlier than 8:30am. these early start policies have a direct effect on how much — or really how little sleep american teenagers are getting.they're also pitting teenagers and their parents in a fundamentally unwinnable fight against their own bodies. around the time of puberty, teenagers experience a delay in their biological clock, which determines when we feel most awake and when we feel most sleepy. this is driven in part by a shift in the release of the hormone melatonin. teenagers' bodies wait to start releasing melatonin until around 11pm, which is two hours later than what we see in adults or younger children. this means that waking a teenager up at 6am is the biological equivalent of waking an adult up at 4am. on the unfortunate days when i have to wake up at 4am, i'm a zombie. functionally useless. i can't think straight, i'm irritable, and i probably shouldn't be driving a car. but this is how many american teenagers feel every single school day. in fact, many of the, shall we say, unpleasant characteristics that we chalk up to being a teenager — moodiness, irritability, laziness, depression — could be a product of chronic sleep deprivation. for many teens battling chronic sleep loss, their go-to strategy to compensate is consuming large quantities of caffeine in the form of venti frappuccinos, or energy drinks and shots. so essentially, we've got an entire population of tired but wired youth.advocates of sleep-friendly start times know that adolescence is a period of dramatic brain development, particularly in the parts of the brain that are responsible for those higher order thinking processes, including reasoning, problem-solving and good judgment. in other words, the very type of brain activity that's responsible for reining in those impulsive and often risky behaviors that are so characteristic of adolescence and that are so terrifying to us parents of teenagers. they know that like the rest of us, when teenagers don't get the sleep they need, their brains, their bodies and behaviors suffer with both immediate and lasting effects. they can't concentrate, their attention plummets and many will even show behavioral signs that mimic adhd.but the consequences of teen sleep loss go well beyond the classroom, sadly contributing to many of the mental health problems that skyrocket during adolescence, including substance use, depression and suicide. in our work with teens from la unified school district, we found that teens with sleep problems were 55 percent more likely to have used alcohol in the past month. in another study with over 30,000 high school students, they found that for each hour of lost sleep, there was a 38 percent increase in feeling sad or hopeless, and a 58 percent increase in teen suicide attempts. and if that's not enough, teens who skip out on sleep are at increased risk for a host of physical health problems that plague our country, including obesity, heart disease and diabetes. then there's the risk of putting a sleep-deprived teen, with a newly minted driver's license, behind the wheel. studies have shown that getting five hours or less of sleep per night is the equivalent of driving with a blood alcohol content above the legal limit.advocates of sleep-friendly start times, and researchers in this area, have produced tremendous science showing the tremendous benefits of later start times. the findings are unequivocal, and as a sleep scientist, i rarely get to speak with that kind of certainty. teens from districts with later start times get more sleep. to the naysayers who may think that if schools start later, teens will just stay up later, the truth is, their bedtimes stay the same, but their wake-up times get extended, resulting in more sleep. they're more likely to show up for school; school absences dropped by 25 percent in one district. and they're less likely to drop out. not surprisingly, they do better academically.so this has real implications for reducing the achievement gap. standardized test scores in math and reading go up by two to three percentage points. that's as powerful as reducing class sizes by one-third fewer students, or replacing a so-so teacher in the classroom with a truly outstanding one. their mental and physical health improves, and even their families are happier. i mean, who wouldn't enjoy a little more pleasantness from our teens, and a little less crankiness? even their communities are safer because car crash rates go down — a 70 percent reduction in one district.given these tremendous benefits, you might think, well, this is a no-brainer, right? so why have we as a society failed to heed this call? often the argument against later start times goes something like this: "why should we delay start times for teenagers? we need to toughen them up so they're ready for the real world!" but that's like saying to the parent of a two-year-old, "don't let johnny nap, or he won't be ready for kindergarten." delaying start times also presents many logistical challenges. not just for students and their families, but for communities as a whole. updating bus routes, increased transportation costs, impact on sports, care before or after school. these are the same concerns that come up in district after district, time and again around the country as school start times are debated. and they're legitimate concerns, but these are problems we have to work through. they are not valid excuses for failing to do the right thing for our children, which is to start middle and high schools no earlier than 8:30am. and in districts around the country, big and small, who have made this change, they found that these fears are often unfounded and far outweighed by the tremendous benefits for student health and performance, and our collective public safety.so tomorrow morning, when coincidentally we get to set our clocks back by an hour and you get that delicious extra hour of sleep, and the day seems a little longer, and a little more full of hope, think about the tremendous power of sleep. and think about what a gift it would be for our children to be able to wake up naturally, in harmony with their own biology.thank you, and pleasant dreams.<title = "When Black women walk, things change">
<tags = "['activism', 'community', 'health', 'heart health', 'humanity', 'obesity', 'personal growth', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Health activist">
vanessa garrison: i am vanessa, daughter of annette, daughter of olympia, daughter of melvina, daughter of katie, born 1878, parish county, louisiana.t. morgan dixon: and my name is morgan, daughter of carol, daughter of letha, daughter of willie, daughter of sarah, born 1849 in bardstown, kentucky.vg: and in the tradition of our families, the great oral tradition of almost every black church we know honoring the culture from which we draw so much power, we're gonna start the way our mommas and grandmas would want us to start.tmd: in prayer. let the words of my mouth, the meditation of our hearts, be acceptable in thy sight, oh lord, my strength and my redeemer.vg: we call the names and rituals of our ancestors into this room today because from them we received a powerful blueprint for survival, strategies and tactics for healing carried across oceans by african women, passed down to generations of black women in america who used those skills to navigate institutions of slavery and state-sponsored discrimination in order that we might stand on this stage. we walk in the footsteps of those women, our foremothers, legends like ella baker, septima clark, fannie lou hamer, from whom we learned the power of organizing after she would had single-handedly registered 60,000 voters in jim crow mississippi.tmd: 60,000 is a lot of people, so if you can imagine me and vanessa inspiring 60,000 women to walk with us last year, we were fired up. but today, 100,000 black women and girls stand on this stage with us. we are committed to healing ourselves, to lacing up our sneakers, to walking out of our front door every single day for total healing and transformation in our communities, because we understand that we are in the footsteps of a civil rights legacy like no other time before, and that we are facing a health crisis like never ever before. and so we've had a lot of moments, great moments, including the time we had on our pajamas, we were working on our computer and michelle obama emailed us and invited us to the white house, and we thought it was spam. but this moment here is an opportunity. it is an opportunity that we don't take for granted, and so we thought long and hard about how we would use it. would we talk to the women we hope to inspire, a million in the next year, or would we talk to you? we decided to talk to you, and to talk to you about a question that we get all the time, so that the millions of women who hopefully will watch this will never have to answer it again. it is: why are black women dying faster and at higher rates than any other group of people in america from preventable, obesity-related diseases?the question hurts me. i'm shaking a little bit. it feels value-laden. it hurts my body because the weight represents so much. but we're going to talk about it and invite you into an inside conversation today because it is necessary, and because we need you.vg: each night, before the first day of school, my grandmother would sit me next to the stove and with expert precision use a hot comb to press my hair. my grandmother was legendary, big, loud. she filled up a room with laughter and oftentimes curse words. she cooked a mean peach cobbler, had 11 children, a house full of grandchildren, and like every black woman i know, like most all women i know, she had prioritized the care of others over caring for herself. we measured her strength by her capacity to endure pain and suffering. we celebrated her for it, and our choice would prove to be deadly. one night after pressing my hair before the first day of eighth grade, my grandmother went to bed and never woke up, dead at 66 years old from a heart attack. by the time i would graduate college, i would lose two more beloved family members to chronic disease: my aunt diane, dead at 55, my aunt tricia, dead at 63. after living with these losses, the hole that they left, i decided to calculate the life expectancy of the women in my family. staring back at me, the number 65. i knew i could not sit by and watch another woman i loved die an early death.tmd: so we don't usually put our business in the streets. let's just put that out there. but i have to tell you the statistics. black women are dying at alarming rates, and i used to be a classroom teacher, and i was at south atlanta high school, and i remember standing in front of my classroom, and i remember a statistic that half of black girls will get diabetes unless diet and levels of activity change. half of the girls in my classroom. so i couldn't teach anymore. so i started taking girls hiking, which is why we're called girltrek, but vanessa was like, that is not going to move the dial on the health crisis; it's cute. she was like, it's a cute hiking club. so what we thought is if we could rally a million of their mothers ... 82 percent of black women are over a healthy weight right now. 53 percent of us are obese. but the number that i cannot, that i cannot get out of my head is that every single day in america, 137 black women die from a preventable disease, heart disease. that's every 11 minutes. 137 is more than gun violence, cigarette smoking and hiv combined, every day. it is roughly the amount of people that were on my plane from new jersey to vancouver. can you imagine that? a plane filled with black women crashing to the ground every day, and no one is talking about it.vg: so the question that you're all asking yourselves right now is why? why are black women dying? we asked ourselves that same question. why is what's out there not working for them? private weight loss companies, government interventions, public health campaigns. i'm going to tell you why: because they focus on weight loss or looking good in skinny jeans without acknowledging the trauma that black women hold in our bellies and bones, that has been embedded in our very dna. the best advice from hospitals and doctors, the best medications from pharmaceutical companies to treat the congestive heart failure of my grandmother didn't work because they didn't acknowledge the systemic racism that she had dealt with since birth. a divestment in schools, discriminatory housing practices, predatory lending, a crack cocaine epidemic, mass incarceration putting more black bodies behind bars than were owned at the height of slavery.but girltrek does. for black women whose bodies are buckling under the weight of systems never designed to support them, girltrek is a lifeline. august 16, 2015, danita kimball, a member of girltrek in detroit, received the news that too many black mothers have received. her son norman, 23 years old, a father of two, was gunned down while on an afternoon drive. imagine the grief that overcomes your body in that moment, the immobilizing fear. now, know this, that just days after laying her son to rest, danita kimball posted online, "i don't know what to do or how to move forward, but my sisters keep telling me i need to walk, so i will." and then just days after that, "i got my steps in today for my baby norm. it felt good to be out there, to walk."tmd: walking through pain is what we have always done. my mom, she's in the middle right there, my mom desegregated her high school in 1955. her mom walked down the steps of an abandoned school bus where she raised 11 kids as a sharecropper. and her mom stepped onto indian territory fleeing the terrors of the jim crow south. and her mom walked her man to the door as he went off to fight in the kentucky colored regiment, the civil war. they were born slaves but they wouldn't die slaves. change-making, it's in my blood. it's what i do, and this health crisis ain't nothing compared to the road we have traveled. so it's like james cleveland. i don't feel no ways tired, so we got to work. we started looking at models of change. we looked all over the world. we needed something not only that was a part of our cultural inheritance like walking, but something that was scalable, something that was high-impact, something that we could replicate across this country. so we studied models like wangari maathai, who won the nobel peace prize for inspiring women to plant 50 million trees in kenya. she brought kenya back from the brink of environmental devastation. we studied these systems of change, and we looked at walking scientifically. and what we learned is that walking just 30 minutes a day can single-handedly decrease 50 percent of your risk of diabetes, heart disease, stroke, even alzheimer's and dementia. we know that walking is the single most powerful thing that a woman can do for her health, so we knew we were on to something, because from harriet tubman to the women in montgomery, when black women walk, things change. vg: so how did we take this simple idea of walking and start a revolution that would catch a fire in neighborhoods across america? we used the best practices of the civil rights movement. we huddled up in church basements. we did grapevine information sharing through beauty salons. we empowered and trained mothers to stand on the front lines. we took our message directly to the streets, and women responded. women like lakeisha in chattanooga, chrysantha in detroit, onika in new orleans, women with difficult names and difficult stories join girltrek every day and commit to walking as a practice of self-care. once walking, those women get to organizing, first their families, then their communities, to walk and talk and solve problems together. they walk and notice the abandoned building. they walk and notice the lack of sidewalks, the lack of green space, and they say, "no more." women like susie paige in philadelphia, who after walking daily past an abandoned building in her neighborhood, decided, "i'm not waiting. let me rally my team. let me grab some supplies. let me do what no one else has done for me and my community."tmd: we know one woman can make a difference, because one woman has already changed the world, and her name is harriet tubman. and trust me, i love harriet tubman. i'm obsessed with her, and i used to be a history teacher. i will not tell you the whole history. i will tell you four things. so i used to have an old saab — the kind of canvas top that drips on your head when it rains — and i drove all the way down to the eastern shore of maryland, and when i stepped on the dirt that harriet tubman made her first escape, i knew she was a woman just like we are and that we could do what she had done, and we learned four things from harriet tubman.the first one: do not wait. walk right now in the direction of your healthiest, most fulfilled life, because self-care is a revolutionary act.number two: when you learn the way forward, come back and get a sister. so in our case, start a team with your friends — your friends, your family, your church.number three: rally your allies. every single person in this room is complicit in a tubman-inspired takeover.and number four: find joy. the most underreported fact of harriet tubman is that she lived to be 93 years old, and she didn't live just an ordinary life; uh-uh. she was standing up for the good guys. she married a younger man. she adopted a child. i'm not kidding. she lived. and i drove up to her house of freedom in upstate new york, and she had planted apple trees, and when i was there on a sunday, they were blooming. do you call it — do they bloom? the apples were in season, and i was thinking, she left fruit for us, the legacy of harriet tubman, every single year. and we know that we are harriet, and we know that there is a harriet in every community in america.vg: we also know that there's a harriet in every community across the globe, and that they could learn from our tubman doctrine, as we call it, the four steps. imagine the possibilities beyond the neighborhoods of oakland and newark, to the women working rice fields in vietnam, tea fields in sri lanka, the women on the mountainsides in guatemala, the indigenous reservations throughout the vast plains of the dakotas. we believe that women walking and talking together to solve their problems is a global solution.tmd: and i'll leave you with this, because we also believe it can become the center of social justice again. vanessa and i were in fort lauderdale. we had an organizer training, and i was leaving and i got on the airplane, and i saw someone i knew, so i waved, and as i'm waiting in that long line that you guys know, waiting for people to put their stuff away, i looked back and i realized i didn't know the woman but i recognized her. and so i blew her a kiss because it was sybrina fulton, trayvon martin's mom, and she whispered "thank you" back to me. and i can't help but wonder what would happen if there were groups of women walking on trayvon's block that day, or what would happen in the south side of chicago every day if there were groups of women and mothers and aunts and cousins walking, or along the polluted rivers of flint, michigan. i believe that walking can transform our communities, because it's already starting to.vg: we believe that the personal is political. our walking is for healing, for joy, for fresh air, quiet time, to connect and disconnect, to worship. but it's also walking so we can be healthy enough to stand on the front lines for change in our communities, and it is our call to action to every black woman listening, every black woman in earshot of our voice, every black woman who you know. think about it: the woman working front desk reception at your job, the woman who delivers your mail, your neighbor — our call to action to them, to join us on the front lines for change in your community.tmd: and i'll bring us back to this moment and why it's so important for my dear, dear friend vanessa and i. it's because it's not always easy for us, and in fact, we have both seen really, really dark days, from the hate speech to the summer of police brutality and violence that we saw last year, to even losing one of our walkers, sandy bland, who died in police custody. but the most courageous thing we do every day is we practice faith that goes beyond the facts, and we put feet to our prayers every single day, and when we get overwhelmed, we think of the words of people like sonia sanchez, a poet laureate, who says, "morgan, where is your fire? where is the fire that burned holes through slave ships to make us breathe? where is the fire that turned guts into chitlins, that took rhythms and make jazz, that took sit-ins and marches and made us jump boundaries and barriers? you've got to find it and pass it on."so this is us finding our fire and passing it on to you. so please, stand with us, walk with us as we rally a million women to reclaim the streets of the 50 highest need communities in this country.we thank you so much for this opportunity. <title = "Poverty isn't a lack of character; it's a lack of cash">
<tags = "['capitalism', 'economics', 'inequality', 'money', 'policy', 'resources', 'social change', 'society', 'work']">
<occupation = "Historian">
i'd like to start with a simple question: why do the poor make so many poor decisions? i know it's a harsh question, but take a look at the data. the poor borrow more, save less, smoke more, exercise less, drink more and eat less healthfully. why?well, the standard explanation was once summed up by the british prime minister, margaret thatcher. and she called poverty "a personality defect." a lack of character, basically.now, i'm sure not many of you would be so blunt. but the idea that there's something wrong with the poor themselves is not restricted to mrs. thatcher. some of you may believe that the poor should be held responsible for their own mistakes. and others may argue that we should help them to make better decisions. but the underlying assumption is the same: there's something wrong with them. if we could just change them, if we could just teach them how to live their lives, if they would only listen. and to be honest, this was what i thought for a long time. it was only a few years ago that i discovered that everything i thought i knew about poverty was wrong.it all started when i accidentally stumbled upon a paper by a few american psychologists. they had traveled 8,000 miles, all the way to india, for a fascinating study. and it was an experiment with sugarcane farmers. you should know that these farmers collect about 60 percent of their annual income all at once, right after the harvest. this means that they're relatively poor one part of the year and rich the other. the researchers asked them to do an iq test before and after the harvest. what they subsequently discovered completely blew my mind. the farmers scored much worse on the test before the harvest. the effects of living in poverty, it turns out, correspond to losing 14 points of iq. now, to give you an idea, that's comparable to losing a night's sleep or the effects of alcoholism.a few months later, i heard that eldar shafir, a professor at princeton university and one of the authors of this study, was coming over to holland, where i live. so we met up in amsterdam to talk about his revolutionary new theory of poverty. and i can sum it up in just two words: scarcity mentality. it turns out that people behave differently when they perceive a thing to be scarce. and what that thing is doesn't much matter — whether it's not enough time, money or food.you all know this feeling, when you've got too much to do, or when you've put off breaking for lunch and your blood sugar takes a dive. this narrows your focus to your immediate lack — to the sandwich you've got to have now, the meeting that's starting in five minutes or the bills that have to be paid tomorrow. so the long-term perspective goes out the window. you could compare it to a new computer that's running 10 heavy programs at once. it gets slower and slower, making errors. eventually, it freezes — not because it's a bad computer, but because it has too much to do at once. the poor have the same problem. they're not making dumb decisions because they are dumb, but because they're living in a context in which anyone would make dumb decisions.so suddenly i understood why so many of our anti-poverty programs don't work. investments in education, for example, are often completely ineffective. poverty is not a lack of knowledge. a recent analysis of 201 studies on the effectiveness of money-management training came to the conclusion that it has almost no effect at all. now, don't get me wrong — this is not to say the poor don't learn anything — they can come out wiser for sure. but it's not enough. or as professor shafir told me, "it's like teaching someone to swim and then throwing them in a stormy sea."i still remember sitting there, perplexed. and it struck me that we could have figured this all out decades ago. i mean, these psychologists didn't need any complicated brain scans; they only had to measure the farmer's iq, and iq tests were invented more than 100 years ago. actually, i realized i had read about the psychology of poverty before. george orwell, one of the greatest writers who ever lived, experienced poverty firsthand in the 1920s. "the essence of poverty," he wrote back then, is that it "annihilates the future." and he marveled at, quote, "how people take it for granted they have the right to preach at you and pray over you as soon as your income falls below a certain level."now, those words are every bit as resonant today. the big question is, of course: what can be done? modern economists have a few solutions up their sleeves. we could help the poor with their paperwork or send them a text message to remind them to pay their bills. this type of solution is hugely popular with modern politicians, mostly because, well, they cost next to nothing. these solutions are, i think, a symbol of this era in which we so often treat the symptoms, but ignore the underlying cause.so i wonder: why don't we just change the context in which the poor live? or, going back to our computer analogy: why keep tinkering around with the software when we can easily solve the problem by installing some extra memory instead? at that point, professor shafir responded with a blank look. and after a few seconds, he said, "oh, i get it. you mean you want to just hand out more money to the poor to eradicate poverty. uh, sure, that'd be great. but i'm afraid that brand of left-wing politics you've got in amsterdam — it doesn't exist in the states."but is this really an old-fashioned, leftist idea? i remembered reading about an old plan — something that has been proposed by some of history's leading thinkers. the philosopher thomas more first hinted at it in his book, "utopia," more than 500 years ago. and its proponents have spanned the spectrum from the left to the right, from the civil rights campaigner, martin luther king, to the economist milton friedman. and it's an incredibly simple idea: basic income guarantee.what it is? well, that's easy. it's a monthly grant, enough to pay for your basic needs: food, shelter, education. it's completely unconditional, so no one's going to tell you what you have to do for it, and no one's going to tell you what you have to do with it. the basic income is not a favor, but a right. there's absolutely no stigma attached. so as i learned about the true nature of poverty, i couldn't stop wondering: is this the idea we've all been waiting for? could it really be that simple? and in the three years that followed, i read everything i could find about basic income. i researched the dozens of experiments that have been conducted all over the globe, and it didn't take long before i stumbled upon a story of a town that had done it — had actually eradicated poverty. but then ... nearly everyone forgot about it.this story starts in dauphin, canada. in 1974, everybody in this small town was guaranteed a basic income, ensuring that no one fell below the poverty line. at the start of the experiment, an army of researchers descended on the town. for four years, all went well. but then a new government was voted into power, and the new canadian cabinet saw little point to the expensive experiment. so when it became clear there was no money left to analyze the results, the researchers decided to pack their files away in some 2,000 boxes. twenty-five years went by, and then evelyn forget, a canadian professor, found the records. for three years, she subjected the data to all manner of statistical analysis, and no matter what she tried, the results were the same every time: the experiment had been a resounding success.evelyn forget discovered that the people in dauphin had not only become richer but also smarter and healthier. the school performance of kids improved substantially. the hospitalization rate decreased by as much as 8.5 percent. domestic violence incidents were down, as were mental health complaints. and people didn't quit their jobs. the only ones who worked a little less were new mothers and students — who stayed in school longer. similar results have since been found in countless other experiments around the globe, from the us to india.so ... here's what i've learned. when it comes to poverty, we, the rich, should stop pretending we know best. we should stop sending shoes and teddy bears to the poor, to people we have never met. and we should get rid of the vast industry of paternalistic bureaucrats when we could simply hand over their salaries to the poor they're supposed to help. because, i mean, the great thing about money is that people can use it to buy things they need instead of things that self-appointed experts think they need. just imagine how many brilliant scientists and entrepreneurs and writers, like george orwell, are now withering away in scarcity. imagine how much energy and talent we would unleash if we got rid of poverty once and for all. i believe that a basic income would work like venture capital for the people. and we can't afford not to do it, because poverty is hugely expensive. just look at the cost of child poverty in the us, for example. it's estimated at 500 billion dollars each year, in terms of higher health care spending, higher dropout rates, and more crime. now, this is an incredible waste of human potential.but let's talk about the elephant in the room. how could we ever afford a basic income guarantee? well, it's actually a lot cheaper than you may think. what they did in dauphin is finance it with a negative income tax. this means that your income is topped up as soon as you fall below the poverty line. and in that scenario, according to our economists' best estimates, for a net cost of 175 billion — a quarter of us military spending, one percent of gdp — you could lift all impoverished americans above the poverty line. you could actually eradicate poverty. now, that should be our goal. the time for small thoughts and little nudges is past. i really believe that the time has come for radical new ideas, and basic income is so much more than just another policy. it is also a complete rethink of what work actually is. and in that sense, it will not only free the poor, but also the rest of us.nowadays, millions of people feel that their jobs have little meaning or significance. a recent poll among 230,000 employees in 142 countries found that only 13 percent of workers actually like their job. and another poll found that as much as 37 percent of british workers have a job that they think doesn't even need to exist. it's like brad pitt says in "fight club," "too often we're working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need." now, don't get me wrong — i'm not talking about the teachers and the garbagemen and the care workers here. if they stopped working, we'd be in trouble. i'm talking about all those well-paid professionals with excellent résumés who earn their money doing ... strategic transactor peer-to-peer meetings while brainstorming the value add-on of disruptive co-creation in the network society. or something like that. just imagine again how much talent we're wasting, simply because we tell our kids they'll have to "earn a living." or think of what a math whiz working at facebook lamented a few years ago: "the best minds of my generation are thinking about how to make people click ads."i'm a historian. and if history teaches us anything, it is that things could be different. there is nothing inevitable about the way we structured our society and economy right now. ideas can and do change the world. and i think that especially in the past few years, it has become abundantly clear that we cannot stick to the status quo — that we need new ideas.i know that many of you may feel pessimistic about a future of rising inequality, xenophobia and climate change. but it's not enough to know what we're against. we also need to be for something. martin luther king didn't say, "i have a nightmare." he had a dream. so ... here's my dream: i believe in a future where the value of your work is not determined by the size of your paycheck, but by the amount of happiness you spread and the amount of meaning you give. i believe in a future where the point of education is not to prepare you for another useless job but for a life well-lived. i believe in a future where an existence without poverty is not a privilege but a right we all deserve. so here we are. here we are. we've got the research, we've got the evidence and we've got the means.now, more than 500 years after thomas more first wrote about a basic income, and 100 years after george orwell discovered the true nature of poverty, we all need to change our worldview, because poverty is not a lack of character. poverty is a lack of cash.thank you. <title = "Why I speak up about living with epilepsy">
<tags = "['Africa', 'communication', 'community', 'health', 'humanity', 'identity', 'mental health', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Mental health advocate">
i have a confession. i have been in an affair since i was 17 years old. i wish i could talk about butterflies in my stomach or maps i drew on the ground when i think about this affair, but i cannot. i wish i could talk about sweet words spoken or gifts that i received from this affair, but i cannot. all i can tell you about is the aftermath, about days i spent constantly asking: why, why, why me?i remember how it all began. i was in my final year of high school, and my class had just won in sports, so we were singing and dancing and hugging each other. i went and took a shower. then i went for dinner. and when i sat down to eat, my teeth started chattering, and so i couldn't put the spoon in my mouth. i rushed to the nurse's office, and because i couldn't talk, i just pointed at my mouth. she didn't know what was happening, so she told me to lie down, and it worked — after a few minutes, the chattering stopped. i was about to dash out, and she told me — no, she insisted — that i go up to the dormitories to sleep. here i was in my final year of high school, just a few months from doing my end of high school exams and a few days from doing a set of exams we call here in kenya "mocks," which are somehow meant to gauge how prepared one is for the final exams. there is no way i was going to sleep and let a set of exams mock me.i went to class, sat down, took my kenyan history notes, and there i was, down kenyan coastal town, with the great mekatilili wa menza, the giriama woman who led her people against british colonial rule. then, without any notice, my left hand started jerking, and it was as if i was marking imaginary papers. in and out it went, and with every stroke, one by one, my classmates stopped concentrating on their reading and started looking at me. and i tried really hard to stop it, but i couldn't, because it had a life of its own. and then, when it was sure everybody was looking at us, in its final show and official introduction, i had my first full-blown seizure, which was the beginning of what has been a 15-year-long affair.seizures are the trademark characteristic for most types of epilepsy, and every first-ever seizure needs to be assessed by a doctor to determine if one has epilepsy or if it's a symptom of something else. in my case, it was confirmed that i had epilepsy. i spent a large chunk of my time in hospital and at home, and only went back to do my final exams. i had seizures in between papers, but managed to get good enough grades to be admitted for an actuarial science degree at the university of nairobi. unfortunately, i had to drop out in my second year. i didn't have good enough coping skills and a support community around me. i was lucky enough to get a job, but i was fired from that job when i had a seizure in the workplace.so i found myself in a space where i was constantly asking myself why this had to happen to me. i lived in denial for a long time, and the denial was maybe because of the things that had happened, dropping out of school and being fired from my job. or maybe it was because of the things i had heard about epilepsy and about people living with epilepsy: that they would never live on their own; that they would never travel on their own or even get work; that they were outcasts, with a spirit in them that they needed to be delivered from.and so the more i thought about these things, the more my seizures became, and i spent days with my legs locked, my speech became blurred and on days on end, this is how i'd be. two or three days after a seizure, my head and my hand would still be twitching. i felt lost, like i'd lost everything, and sometimes, even the will to live.(sigh)i had so much frustration in me. and so i started writing, because the people around me didn't have answers to the questions that i had. and so i wrote my fears and my doubts. i wrote about my good days and my bad days and my really ugly days, and i shared them on a blog. and before long, i began to be seen and heard by people who had epilepsy and their families, and even those who did not have the diagnosis. and i moved from that girl who constantly asked why me to one who not only self-advocates, but does it for those who are yet to find their voices. my seizures are greatly reduced, from two to three times a day, to sometimes two to three times in one year.i went on — i went on to employ five people, when i began what was kenya's first free mental health and epilepsy support line.and i travel — and i travel to speak about my affair, all these things that i had been told people like me living with epilepsy could never be able to do.every year, a population as big as 80 percent of nairobi gets diagnosed with epilepsy across the globe. and they, like me, go through the emotions of stigma and exclusion. and so i have made it my life journey to keep these conversations going, and i keep confessing about my affair so that those people who do not have the diagnosis might know and might have a constant reminder that it is alright to engage with people like us, that as long as they pull down the walls of stigma and exclusion, that we, just like them, can be able to take anything life throws at us.thank you. <title = "This is what democracy looks like">
<tags = "['United States', 'activism', 'communication', 'democracy', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'immigration', 'inequality', 'news', 'peace', 'politics', 'refugees', 'security', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Attorney, public-interest activist">
silicon valley is obsessed with disruption, but these days, the biggest disruptor didn't come out of silicon valley. it came out of steel towns in ohio, rural communities in pennsylvania, the panhandle in florida. and this last us presidential election was the mother of all disruptions. once again, politics is personal. millions of americans became activists overnight, pouring into the streets in record numbers in record time. the election has done to family holiday dinners what uber has done to new york city's taxi system. couples have broken up and marriages disrupted. and the election is doing to my private life what amazon is doing to shopping malls. these days, the aclu is on the front lines 24/7, and even if i manage to sneak away for a couple of miles on the treadmill, any cardio benefit i get is instantly obliterated when i read another presidential tweet on the headline scroll. even my secret pleasure of studying the italian painters have been infected by politics.now, i study, even stalk, the old masters. this is my desk, with a postcard exhibition of some famous and obscure paintings mostly from the italian renaissance. now, art used to provide me with a necessary break from the hurly-burly of politics in my daily work at the aclu, but not anymore.i was at the women's march in san francisco the day after inauguration, and the crowd was chanting, "this is what democracy looks like." "this is what democracy looks like." and there i was holding my sign and my umbrella in the rain, and i flashed on an old painting that first captivated me many years ago. i struggled to remember the different pieces of an actual painting of good and bad government. it was almost like the old master was taunting me. you want to know what democracy looks like? go back and look at my frescoes.and so i did. in 1339, ambrogio lorenzetti finished a monumental commission in the governing council chamber of siena's palazzo pubblico. it's a painting that speaks to us, even screams to us, today. "art is a lie that makes us realize truth," pablo picasso once said. and as we search for the truth about government, we should keep ambrogio's work, not a lie but an allegory, in our collective mind's eye.during lorenzetti's time, the political legitimacy of italian city-states was often on very shaky ground. siena was a republic, but there had been enormous unrest in the two decades leading up to the commission. siena's political leaders, who would literally govern under the eyes of these allegorical figures, were lorenzetti's intended audience. he was cataloging the obligations of the governing to the governed.now, you can spend years studying these frescoes. some scholars have. i'm hardly an art historian, but i am passionate about art, and a work this massive can overwhelm me. so first, i focus on the big stuff.this is the allegory of good government. the majestic figure here in the middle is dressed in siena's colors and he personifies the republic itself. lorenzetti labels him "commune," and he's basically telling the sienese that they, and not a king or a tyrant, must rule themselves. now, surrounding commune are his advisors. justice is enthroned. she's looking up at the figure of wisdom, who actually supports her scales of justice. concord, or harmony, holds a string that comes off the scales of justice that binds her to the citizens, making them all compatriots in the republic. and finally we see peace. she looks chilled out, like she's listening to bob marley. when good government rules, peace doesn't break a sweat.now, these are big images and big ideas, but i really love the small stuff. along another wall, lorenzetti illustrates the effects of good government on the real and everyday lives of ordinary people with a series of delicious little details. in the countryside, the hills are landscaped and farmed. crops are being sown, hoed, reaped, milled, plowed, all in one picture. crops and livestock are being brought to market. in the city, builders raise a tower. people attend a law lecture, a ted talk of the 14th century. schoolchildren play. tradesmen thrive. dancers larger than life dance with joy. and watching over the republic is the winged figure security, whose banner reads, "everyone shall go forth freely without fear."now, what's amazing about these images from 800 years ago is that they're familiar to us today. we see what democracy looks like. we experience the effects of good government in our lives, just as lorenzetti did in his life.but it is the allegory of bad government that has been haunting me since november 9. it's badly damaged, but it reads like today's newspapers. and ruling over bad government is not the commune but the tyrant. he has horns, tusks, crossed eyes, braided hair. he obviously spends a lot of time on that hair. justice now lies helpless at his feet, shackled. her scales have been severed. justice is the key antagonist to the tyrant, and she's been taken out.now, surrounding the tyrant, lorenzetti illustrates the vices that animate bad government. avarice is the old woman clutching the strongbox and a fisherman's hook to pull in her fortune. vainglory carries a mirror, and lorenzetti warns us against narcissistic leaders who are guided by their own ego and vanity. on the tyrant's right is cruelty. treason, half lamb, half scorpion, lulls us into a false sense of security and then poisons a republic. fraud, with the flighty wings of a bat. on the tyrant's left, you see division. she's dressed in siena's colors. "si" and "no" are painted on her body. she uses a carpenter's saw to chop her body in half. and fury wields the weapons of the mob, the stone and knife.in the remainder of the fresco, lorenzetti shows us the inevitable effects of bad government. the civic ideals celebrated elsewhere in this room have failed us, and we see it. the once beautiful city has fallen to pieces, the countryside barren, the farms abandoned. many are in flames. and in the sky above is not the winged figure security, but that of fear, whose banner reads: "none shall pass along this road without fear of death."now, the final image, the most important one, really, is one that lorenzetti did not paint. it is of the viewer. today, the audience for lorenzetti's frescoes is not the governing but the governed, the individual who stands in front of his allegories and walks away with insight, who heeds a call to action. lorenzetti warns us that we must recognize the shadows of avarice, fraud, division, even tyranny when they float across our political landscape, especially when those shadows are cast by political leaders loudly claiming to be the voice of good government and promising to make america great again.and we must act. democracy must not be a spectator sport. the right to protest, the right to assemble freely, the right to petition one's government, these are not just rights. in the face of avarice, fraud and division, these are obligations. we have to disrupt — we have to disrupt our lives so that we can disrupt the amoral accretion of power by those who would betray our values. we and we the people must raise justice up and must bring peace to our nation and must come together in concord, and we have a choice. we could either paint ourselves into the worst nightmare of lorenzetti's bad government, or we can stay in the streets, disruptive, messy, loud. that is what democracy looks like.thank you. chris anderson: first of all, wow. obviously, many people passionately — you spoke to many people passionately here. i'm sure there are other people here who'd say, look, trump was elected by 63 million people. he's far from perfect, but he's trying to do what he was elected to do. shouldn't you give him a chance?anthony romero: i think we have to recognize the legitimacy of him as president versus the legitimacy of his policies. and when so many of the policies are contrary to fundamental values, that we're all equal under the law, that we're not judged by the color of our skin or the religion we worship, we have to contest those values even as we recognize and honor the fact that our democracy rendered us a president who is championing those values.ca: and the aclu isn't just this force on the left, right? you're making other arguments as well.ar: well, you know, very often we piss everyone off at one point. that's what we do. and we recently were taking stands for why ann coulter needs to be able to speak at berkeley, and why milo has free speech rights. and we even wrote a blog that almost burnt the house down among some of our members, unfortunately, when we talked about the fact that even donald trump has free speech rights as president, and an effort to hold him accountable for incitement of violence at his marches or his rallies is unconstitutional and un-american. and when you put that statement out there to a very frothy base that always is very excited for you to fight donald trump, and then you have a new one saying, "wait, these rights are for everybody, even the president that we don't like." and that's our job. ca: anthony, you spoke to so many of us so powerfully.thank you so much. thank you. <title = "A secret weapon against Zika and other mosquito-borne diseases">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'biology', 'biotech', 'disease', 'environment', 'epidemiology', 'genetics', 'global issues', 'health', 'illness', 'insects', 'molecular biology', 'monkeys', 'public health', 'science', 'society', 'technology', 'virus']">
<occupation = "Molecular biologist">
zika fever: our newest dread disease. what is it? where'd it come from?what do we do about it? well for most adults, it's a relatively mild disease — a little fever, a little headache, joint pain, maybe a rash. in fact, most people who get it don't even know they've had it. but the more we find out about the zika virus the more terrifying it becomes. for example, doctors have noticed an uptick of something called guillain-barré syndrome in recent outbreaks. in guillain-barré, your immune system attacks your nerve cells it can partially or even totally paralyze you. fortunately, that's quite rare, and most people recover. but if you're pregnant when you're infected you're at risk of something terrible. indeed, a child with a deformed head.here's a normal baby. here's that infant with what's called microcephaly. a brain in a head that's too small. and there's no known cure. it was actually doctors in northeastern brazil who first noticed, just a year ago, after a zika outbreak, that there was a peak in the incidence of microcephaly. it took medical doctors another year to be sure that it was caused by the zika virus, but they're now sure. and if you're a "bring on the evidence" type, check out this publication.so where did it come from, and how did it get here? and it is here. like many of our viruses, it came out of africa, specifically the zika forest in uganda. researchers at the nearby yellow fever research institute identified an unknown virus in a monkey in the zika forest which is how it got its name. the first human cases of zika fever surfaced a few years later in uganda-tanzania. the virus then spread through west africa and east through equatorial asia — pakistan, india, malaysia, indonesia. but it was still mostly in monkeys and, of course, mosquitoes. in fact in the 60 years between the time it was first identified in 1947 and 2007 there were only 13 reported cases of human zika fever. and then something extraordinary happened on the tiny micronesian yap islands. there was an outbreak that affected fully 75 percent of the population. how did it get there? by air. today we have two billion commercial airline passengers. an infected passenger can board a plane, fly halfway around the world before developing symptoms — if they develop symptoms at all. then when they land, the local mosquitoes begin to bite them and spread the fever. zika fever then next surfaced in 2013 in french polynesia. by december of that year, it was being transmitted locally by the mosquitoes. that led to an explosive outbreak in which almost 30,000 people were affected. from there it radiated around the pacific. there were outbreaks in the cook islands, in new caledonia, in vanuatu, in the solomon islands and almost all the way around to the coast of south america and easter island. and then, in early 2015, there was an upsurge of cases of a dengue-like syndrome in the city of natal in northeastern brazil. the virus wasn't dengue, it was zika, and it spread rapidly — recife down the coast, a big metropolitan center, soon became the epicenter. well people have speculated that it was 2014 world cup soccer fans that brought the virus into the country. but others have speculated that perhaps it was pacific islanders participating in championship canoe races that were held in rio that year that brought it in.well today, this is only a year later. the virus is being locally transmitted by mosquitoes virtually throughout south america, central america, mexico and the caribbean islands until this year, the many thousands of cases that have been diagnosed in the us were contracted elsewhere. but as of this summer, it's being transmitted locally in miami. it's here.so what do we do about it? well, preventing infection is either about protecting people or about eliminating the mosquitoes. let's focus on people first. you can get vaccinated. you can not travel to zika areas. or you can cover up and apply insect repellent. getting vaccinated is not an option, because there isn't a vaccine yet and there probably won't be for a couple of years. staying home isn't a foolproof protection either because we now know that it can be sexually transmitted. covering up and applying insect repellent does work ...until you forget. so that leaves the mosquitoes, and here's how we control them now: spraying insecticides. the protective gear is necessary because these are toxic chemicals that kill people as well as bugs. although it does take quite a lot more to kill a person than to kill a bug. these are pictures from brazil and nicaragua. but it looks the same in miami, florida. and we of course can spray insecticides from planes. last summer, mosquito control officials in dorchester county, south carolina, authorized spraying of naled, an insecticide, early one morning, as recommended by the manufacturer. later that day, a beekeeper told reporters that her bee yard looked like it had been nuked. oops. bees are the good guys. the citizens of florida protested, but spraying continued. unfortunately, so did the increase in the number of zika fever cases. that's because insecticides aren't very effective.so are there any approaches that are perhaps more effective than spraying but with less downsides than toxic chemicals? i'm a huge fan of biological controls, and i share that view with rachel carson, author of "silent spring," the book that is credited with starting the environmental movement. in this book she tells the story, as an example, of how a very nasty insect pest of livestock was eliminated in the last century. no one knows that extraordinary story today. so jack block and i, when we were writing an editorial about the mosquito problem today, retold that story. and in capsule form, it's that pupae — that's the immature form of the insect — were irradiated until they were sterile, grown to adulthood and then released from planes all over the southwest, the southeast and down into mexico and into central america literally by the hundreds of millions from little airplanes, eventually eliminating that terrible insect pest for most of the western hemisphere. our real purpose in writing this editorial was to introduce readers to how we can do that today — not with radiation but with our knowledge of genetics. let me explain.this is the bad guy: aedes aegypti. it's the most common insect vector of diseases, not just zika but dengue, chikungunya, west nile virus and that ancient plague, yellow fever. it's an urban mosquito, and it's the female that does the dirty work. she bites to get a blood meal to feed her offspring. males don't bite; they don't even have the mouth parts to bite. a little british company called oxitec genetically modified that mosquito so that when it mates with a wild female, its eggs don't develop to adulthood. let me show you. this is the normal reproductive cycle. oxitec designed the mosquito so that when the male mates with the wild female the eggs don't develop. sounds impossible? well let me show you just diagrammatically how they do it. now this represents the nucleus of a mosquito cell, and that tangle in the middle represents its genome, the sum total of its genes. scientists added a single gene that codes for a protein represented by this orange ball that feeds back on itself to keep cranking out more of that protein. the extra copies, however, go and gum up the mosquitoes' genes, killing the organism. to keep it alive in the laboratory they use a compound called tetracycline. tetracycline shuts off that gene and allows normal development. they added another little wrinkle so that they could study what happens. and that is they added a gene that makes the insect glow under uv light so that when they released it they could follow exactly how far it went how long it lived and all of the kinds of data for a good scientific study. now this is the pupal stage, and at this stage the females are larger than the males. that allows them to sort them into the males and the females and they allow only the males to grow to adulthood. and let me remind you that males don't bite. from there it's pretty simple. they take beakers full of male mosquitoes, load them into milk cartons, and drive around the city, releasing them guided by gps. here's the mayor of a city releasing the first batch of what they call the "friendly aedes." now i wish i could tell you this is an american city, but it's not. it's piracicaba, brazil. the amazing thing is that in just a year it brought down the cases of dengue by 91 percent. that's better than any insecticide spraying can do.so why aren't we using this remarkable biological control in the us? that's because it's a gmo: a genetically modified organism. notice the subtitle here says if the fda would let them they could do the same thing here, when zika arrives. and of course it has arrived. so now i have to tell you the short form of the long, torturous story of gm regulation in the us in the us, there are three agencies that regulate genetically modified organisms: the fda, the food and drug administration, the epa, the environmental protection agency, and the usda, us department of agriculture. took these folks two years to decide that it would be the fda that would regulate the genetically modified mosquito. and they would do it as a new animal drug, if that makes any sense. took them another five years going back and forth and back and forth to convince the fda that this would not harm people, and it would not harm the environment. they finally gave them, this summer, permission to run a little test in the florida keys, where they had been invited years earlier when they keys had an outbreak of dengue. would that it were that easy. when the local residents heard that there would be genetically modified mosquitoes tested in their community some of them began to organize protests. they even organized a petition on the internet with this cuddly logo, which eventually accumulated some 160,000 signatures and they demanded a referendum which will be conducted in just a couple of weeks about whether the trials would be permitted at all.well it's miami that really needs these better ways of controlling insects. and there the attitudes are changing. in fact, very recently a bipartisan group of more than 60 legislators wrote to hhs secretary sylvia burwell asking that she, at the federal level, expedite access for florida to this new technology.so the bottom line is this: biological control of harmful insects can be both more effective and very much more environmentally friendly than using insecticides, which are toxic chemicals. that was true in rachel carson's time; it's true today. what's different is that we have enormously more information about genetics than we had then, and therefore more ability to use that information to affect these biological controls. and i hope that what i've done is aroused your curiosity enough to start your own inquiry — not into just gm mosquitoes but to the other genetically modified organisms that are so controversial today. i think if you do that, and you dig down through all of the misinformation, and the marketing on the part of the organic food industry and the greenpeaces and find the science, the accurate science, you'll be surprised and pleased.thank you. <title = "How to find a wonderful idea">
<tags = "['collaboration', 'communication', 'discovery', 'live music', 'music', 'performance']">
<occupation = "Band">
(dominoes fall)(toy car)(ball rolls)(music: "this too shall pass")(singing)you know you can't keep letting it get you down,and you can't keep dragging that dead weight around.if there ain't all that much to lug aroundbetter run like hell when you hit the groundwhen the morning comeswhen the morning comesyou can't stop these kids from dancing,but why would you want to,especially when you're already getting yours?(xylophone)(singing) 'cause if your mind don't move and your knees don't bend,well don't go blaming the kids again.(xylophone)(singing) when the morning comeswhen the morning comeswhen the morning comeswhen the morning comeswhen the morning comeswhen the morning comes(xylophone)(singing) let it go,this too shall passlet it go, this too shall passyou know you can't keep letting it get you down,you can't keep letting it get you down —this too shall passif there ain't all that much to lug around,you can't keep letting it get you down —this too shall passwhen the morning comes —you can't keep letting it get you down,no you can't keep letting itwhen the morning comes —you can't keep letting it get you down,no you can't keep letting itwhen the morning comes —you can't keep letting it get you down,no you can't keep letting itwhen the morning comes —you can't keep letting it get you down,no you can't keep letting itwhen the morning comes(paint guns fire) damian kulash: thank you, thanks very much.we are ok go, and we've been together as a band since 1998. but in the last decade, we've become known as much for the elaborate music videos, like the one we just saw, as for the songs they accompany. so we will play along with another one of those in a few minutes, but in the meantime, we want to address this question that we get asked all the time but we've really never come up with an adequate answer for it, and that is, how do we think of those ideas?the videos are not all rube goldberg machines, by the way. last year we did a dance in zero gravity, and once we set up an obstacle course out of thousands of musical instruments in the desert, and then played them by stunt driving a car through them. for one of the videos, we choreographed hundreds of people with umbrellas in an abandoned parking lot outside tokyo, and then filmed them from a drone a half a mile in the air.so it's all of these ideas that people are curious about, and the reason we've had so much trouble describing how we think of these ideas is that it doesn't really feel like we think of them at all. it feels like we find them. and by way of explanation — well, i have a compulsive habit. i play parallax and perspective games with my eyes pretty much all the time, and it's something i've been doing since i was a teenager. and i think the big contributing factor may have been that this is how i decorated my high school bedroom. and being a teenager, what i did in there, of course, was just talk on the phone for staggering amounts of time. so i was in this visual maelstrom just pretty much usually sitting in one place, and i guess just the overload in general — my brain kind of tried to make sense of it, and i would — if i could move my head off to one side a little bit, the edge of the desk would line up just perfectly with that poster on the opposite wall; or if i put my thumb out, i could close first my left eye and then my right, and my thumb would bounce back and forth between jimi hendrix's left eye and his right. it was not a conscious thing, of course, this is just kind of the equivalent of doodling while you're talking, and it's still something i do all the time. this is my wife, kristin — yeah! woo!and it's not uncommon that we are out at dinner, and in the middle of a great conversation she'll just stop mid-sentence, and when she stops is when i realize that i'm the one who's acting weird because i'm like bobbing and weaving. and what i'm trying to do is get that ficus back there to stick out of her head like a ponytail. the point of telling you all this is that — for me this is what it feels like to have an idea. it's like they're made of these disparate parts, these disparate chunks sort of floating out there. and if you're receptive and you're observant, and crucially, if you're in exactly the right place, you can get them to just line up.so if you get used to — if it's your job to think of ideas this way, they'll start beckoning to you the way that jimi's eyes beckoned from that poster, or the ficus beckons from behind kristin's head. writing music feels like that process just over and over again, like you've got a bunch of sounds or a groove or a chord progression and you're just looking for that thing on the other side, that little chunk over there, that puzzle piece that clicks right in. and when it does click, it doesn't feel like you thought up that puzzle piece, it feels like you found it — like it was a set of relationships that you unlocked.but with the videos in particular, we're usually looking for this specific feeling which is wonder. and there's always a component of surprise to wonder, so we're not just looking for good ideas, we're looking for good ideas that surprise us in some way. and this causes something of a problem, because ... the process that we all use to make stuff, it actually has a very strong bias against surprising ideas.the process i'm talking about is the one you all know — we all do it all the time. you think of an idea. you just sit and think of your brilliant idea and then you come up with a plan for how you're going to make that idea happen. and then with that plan in mind, you go back and double-check your original idea and maybe revise it, and then bouncing back and forth between the idea and the plan, the plan and the idea, eventually you come up with a truly great plan. and then once you have that, and only then, do you go out and you execute. and this is like — this is sort of a flawless system in terms of maximizing your resources, because this — super cheap. thinking usually costs very little, but this is really expensive most of the time, so by the time you get there, you want to make sure you're super prepared and you can squeeze every last drop out of what you've got.but there are problems with this, and math will help us reveal the biggest one. go back to that video that we just showed you. that rube goldberg machine, it had about 130 interactions in it. that was 130 things that we had to have go according to our plan. so let's assume that we want to make a new video now, similarly complex — 130 moving parts. if we're really good planners in that system, it seems like maybe we could be good enough to get every part of that system to be 90 percent reliable. 90 percent sounds good, right? well, it's not. it's terrible actually. the numbers say so. the chance of getting all 130 things to not fail at the same time is .9 for 90 percent to the 130th power. so calculate that out and you get ...(ding).000001, which is one ten-thousandth of one percent, so your chance for success is literally one in a million.(whistle) i mean that's not a gamble i want to take, so let's ratchet up that reliability to 99 percent. .99 to the 130th power is ...(ding).27 — 27 percent. significantly less daunting — like this might even be usable. but really think about that. how many parts of your lives are 99 percent reliable? and could you really get 130 of them all in one place at once? and if you really could, doesn't it seem like you deserve to succeed? like that is — that thing is going to work, right? but no, it actually fails three times more often than it succeeds.so the upshot of all this is that if your project is pretty complex — like, you know, every ambitious project is — if you've got a lot of moving parts, you're basically constrained to just reshuffling ideas that have already demonstrably proven that they're 100 percent reliable. so now go back to me sitting with my thumb in the air trying to line up something surprising. if the only things i'm allowed to consider in the first place are ideas that have already been done over and over and over again, i am screwed. however, there are ways around this, because we all know that there are tons of untried ideas still out there, and plenty of them will turn out to be every bit as reliable as we need, it's just that we don't yet know they are reliable when we are at this planning phase.so what we do is we try to identify some place where there might just be a ton of those untried ideas. we try to find a sandbox and then we gamble a whole bunch of our resources on getting in that sandbox and playing. because we have to trust that it's the process in the sandbox that will reveal to us which ideas are not only surprising, but surprisingly reliable.so some of the sandboxes that we've started videos with. let's play with optical illusions. let's try to dance on moving surfaces. let's try to make toast with a laser cutter. or let's do something in one of those zero-gravity airplanes. but then instead of actually trying to sit there and think out what that something is, we spent a full third of our budget getting in an actual vomit comet and bouncing off the walls for a week.so this may seem to you like testing, but it really isn't, because at this point we don't yet know what our idea is, we don't have a plan to be testing. so we're just — we're just playing, we're just trying everything we can think of, because we need to get this idea space filled up with a chaos like the one in my high school bedroom. because then, if we can do the bob and weave thing, if we can put our thumbs up and get just a few things to line up —(ding)chances are no one else has ever made those same things line up before. and when we're done with that project, people will ask us again how we thought of that idea, and we'll be stumped, because from our perspective, it doesn't feel like we thought of it at all, it just feels like we found it.so we'll play another video for you now and the song along with it. this is for the song "the one moment," and for this one, the sandbox was ballistics and math. so i spent a full month putting together a giant spreadsheet for this. it was like my playspace was 400 lines long and 25 columns wide — which i presume that if anybody is going to understand that, it's this crowd. nothing is better than a giant spreadsheet, right? well, thank you everyone, very much. we are ok go, and this is called "the one moment." [the one moment](explosions)[what you just saw was real and it took 4.2 seconds](video) let me know when it's safe.(percussion)[here's the same moment ... slowed down.](music)(guitar)(singing) you're right,there's nothing more lovely,there's nothing more profound than the certainty,than the certainty that all of this will endthat all of this will endso open your arms to me,open your arms to meand this will be the one moment that matters,and this will be the one thing we remember,and this will be the reason to have been here,and this will be the one moment that matters —oh ...(guitar)(singing) so while the mud reclaims our footprints,and while our bones keep looking backat the overgrowth that's swallowing the path —but for the grace of god go we,but for the grace of god go webut for the grace of time and chance and entropy's cruel hands —so open your arms to me,open your arms to meand this will be the one moment that matters,and this will be the one thing we remember,and this will be the reason to have been here,and this will be the one moment that mattersoh ...so won't you stay here with meand we'll build 'til we've blistered our handsso won't you stay here with me and we'll build us some temples,build us some castles,build us some monumentsand burn them all right down(music)(singing) so open your arms to meand this will be the one moment that matters,and this will be the reason to have been here,and this will be the one thing we remember,and this will be the one moment that mattersso won't you stay here with me,we'll build 'til we blister our handsand this will be the one moment that matters —so won't you stay here with me and build us some temples —this will be the one moment that matters —build us some temples —the one moment that matters —build us some monuments —the one moment that mattersbuild us some temples —the one moment that matters.build us some monuments —the one moment that matters, oh(guitar) <title = "How pollution is changing the ocean's chemistry">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'animals', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biosphere', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'environment', 'future', 'nature', 'oceans', 'pollution', 'science', 'water']">
<occupation = "Chemical oceanographer">
do you ever think about how important the oceans are in our daily lives? the oceans cover two-thirds of our planet. they provide half the oxygen we breathe. they moderate our climate. and they provide jobs and medicine and food including 20 percent of protein to feed the entire world population. people used to think that the oceans were so vast that they wouldn't be affected by human activities.well today i'm going to tell you about a serious reality that is changing our oceans called ocean acidification, or the evil twin of climate change. did you know that the oceans have absorbed 25 percent of all of the carbon dioxide that we have emitted to the atmosphere? now this is just another great service provided by the oceans since carbon dioxide is one of the greenhouse gases that's causing climate change. but as we keep pumping more and more and more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere more is dissolving into the oceans. and this is what's changing our ocean chemistry. when carbon dioxide dissolves in seawater, it undergoes a number of chemical reactions.now lucky for you, i don't have time to get into the details of the chemistry for today. but i'll tell you as more carbon dioxide enters the ocean, the seawater ph goes down. and this basically means that there is an increase in ocean acidity. and this whole process is called ocean acidification. and it's happening alongside climate change. scientists have been monitoring ocean acidification for over two decades. this figure is an important time series in hawaii, and the top line shows steadily increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide, or co2 gas, in the atmosphere. and this is directly as a result of human activities. the line underneath shows the increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide that is dissolved in the surface of the ocean which you can see is increasing at the same rate as carbon dioxide in the atmosphere since measurements began. the line on the bottom shows then shows the change in chemistry. as more carbon dioxide has entered the ocean, the seawater ph has gone down, which basically means there has been an increase in ocean acidity. now in ireland, scientists are also monitoring ocean acidification — scientists at the marine institute and nui galway. and we, too, are seeing acidification at the same rate as these main ocean time-series sites around the world. so it's happening right at our doorstep.now i'd like to give you an example of just how we collect our data to monitor a changing ocean. firstly we collect a lot of our samples in the middle of winter. so as you can imagine, in the north atlantic we get hit with some seriously stormy conditions — so not for any of you who get a little motion sickness, but we are collecting some very valuable data. so we lower this instrument over the side of the ship, and there are sensors that are mounted on the bottom that can tell us information about the surrounding water, such as temperature or dissolved oxygen. and then we can collect our seawater samples in these large bottles. so we start at the bottom, which can be over four kilometers deep just off our continental shelf, and we take samples at regular intervals right up to the surface. we take the seawater back on the deck, and then we can either analyze them on the ship or back in the laboratory for the different chemicals parameters.but why should we care? how is ocean acidification going to affect all of us? well, here are the worrying facts. there has already been an increase in ocean acidity of 26 percent since pre-industrial times, which is directly due to human activities. unless we can start slowing down our carbon dioxide emissions, we're expecting an increase in ocean acidity of 170 percent by the end of this century. i mean this is within our children's lifetime. this rate of acidification is 10 times faster than any acidification in our oceans for over 55 million years. so our marine life have never, ever experienced such a fast rate of change before. so we literally could not know how they're going to cope.now there was a natural acidification event millions of years ago, which was much slower than what we're seeing today. and this coincided with a mass extinction of many marine species. so is that what we're headed for? well, maybe. studies are showing some species are actually doing quite well but many are showing a negative response. one of the big concerns is as ocean acidity increases, the concentration of carbonate ions in seawater decrease. now these ions are basically the building blocks for many marine species to make their shells, for example crabs or mussels, oysters.another example are corals. they also need these carbonate ions in seawater to make their coral structure in order to build coral reefs. as ocean acidity increases and the concentration of carbonate ions decrease, these species first find it more difficult to make their shells. and at even even lower levels, they can actually begin to dissolve.this here is a pteropod, it's called a sea butterfly. and it's an important food source in the ocean for many species, from krill to salmon right up to whales. the shell of the pteropod was placed into seawater at a ph that we're expecting by the end of this century. after only 45 days at this very realistic ph, you can see the shell has almost completely dissolved. so ocean acidification could affect right up through the food chain — and right onto our dinner plates. i mean who here likes shellfish? or salmon? or many other fish species whose food source in the ocean could be affected?these are cold-water corals. and did you know we actually have cold-water corals in irish waters, just off our continental shelf? and they support rich biodiversity, including some very important fisheries. it's projected that by the end of this century, 70 percent of all known cold-water corals in the entire ocean will be surrounded by seawater that is dissolving their coral structure. the last example i have are these healthy tropical corals. they were placed in seawater at a ph we're expecting by the year 2100. after six months, the coral has almost completely dissolved. now coral reefs support 25 percent of all marine life in the entire ocean. all marine life.so you can see: ocean acidification is a global threat. i have an eight-month-old baby boy. unless we start now to slow this down, i dread to think what our oceans will look like when he's a grown man. we will see acidification. we have already put too much carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. but we can slow this down. we can prevent the worst-case scenario. the only way of doing that is by reducing our carbon dioxide emissions. this is important for both you and i, for industry, for governments.we need to work together, slow down global warming slow down ocean acidification and help to maintain a healthy ocean and a healthy planet for our generation and for generations to come. <title = "Don't fear intelligent machines. Work with them">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'computers', 'data', 'future', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'potential', 'robots', 'social change', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Grandmaster, analyst">
this story begins in 1985, when at age 22, i became the world chess champion after beating anatoly karpov. earlier that year, i played what is called simultaneous exhibition against 32 of the world's best chess-playing machines in hamburg, germany. i won all the games, and then it was not considered much of a surprise that i could beat 32 computers at the same time. to me, that was the golden age. machines were weak, and my hair was strong. just 12 years later, i was fighting for my life against just one computer in a match called by the cover of "newsweek" "the brain's last stand." no pressure. from mythology to science fiction, human versus machine has been often portrayed as a matter of life and death. john henry, called the steel-driving man in the 19th century african american folk legend, was pitted in a race against a steam-powered hammer bashing a tunnel through mountain rock. john henry's legend is a part of a long historical narrative pitting humanity versus technology. and this competitive rhetoric is standard now. we are in a race against the machines, in a fight or even in a war. jobs are being killed off. people are being replaced as if they had vanished from the earth. it's enough to think that the movies like "the terminator" or "the matrix" are nonfiction.there are very few instances of an arena where the human body and mind can compete on equal terms with a computer or a robot. actually, i wish there were a few more. instead, it was my blessing and my curse to literally become the proverbial man in the man versus machine competition that everybody is still talking about. in the most famous human-machine competition since john henry, i played two matches against the ibm supercomputer, deep blue. nobody remembers that i won the first match — in philadelphia, before losing the rematch the following year in new york. but i guess that's fair. there is no day in history, special calendar entry for all the people who failed to climb mt. everest before sir edmund hillary and tenzing norgay made it to the top. and in 1997, i was still the world champion when chess computers finally came of age. i was mt. everest, and deep blue reached the summit. i should say of course, not that deep blue did it, but its human creators — anantharaman, campbell, hoane, hsu. hats off to them. as always, machine's triumph was a human triumph, something we tend to forget when humans are surpassed by our own creations.deep blue was victorious, but was it intelligent? no, no it wasn't, at least not in the way alan turing and other founders of computer science had hoped. it turned out that chess could be crunched by brute force, once hardware got fast enough and algorithms got smart enough. although by the definition of the output, grandmaster-level chess, deep blue was intelligent. but even at the incredible speed, 200 million positions per second, deep blue's method provided little of the dreamed-of insight into the mysteries of human intelligence.soon, machines will be taxi drivers and doctors and professors, but will they be "intelligent?" i would rather leave these definitions to the philosophers and to the dictionary. what really matters is how we humans feel about living and working with these machines.when i first met deep blue in 1996 in february, i had been the world champion for more than 10 years, and i had played 182 world championship games and hundreds of games against other top players in other competitions. i knew what to expect from my opponents and what to expect from myself. i was used to measure their moves and to gauge their emotional state by watching their body language and looking into their eyes.and then i sat across the chessboard from deep blue. i immediately sensed something new, something unsettling. you might experience a similar feeling the first time you ride in a driverless car or the first time your new computer manager issues an order at work. but when i sat at that first game, i couldn't be sure what is this thing capable of. technology can advance in leaps, and ibm had invested heavily. i lost that game. and i couldn't help wondering, might it be invincible? was my beloved game of chess over? these were human doubts, human fears, and the only thing i knew for sure was that my opponent deep blue had no such worries at all. i fought back after this devastating blow to win the first match, but the writing was on the wall. i eventually lost to the machine but i didn't suffer the fate of john henry who won but died with his hammer in his hand. it turned out that the world of chess still wanted to have a human chess champion. and even today, when a free chess app on the latest mobile phone is stronger than deep blue, people are still playing chess, even more than ever before. doomsayers predicted that nobody would touch the game that could be conquered by the machine, and they were wrong, proven wrong, but doomsaying has always been a popular pastime when it comes to technology.what i learned from my own experience is that we must face our fears if we want to get the most out of our technology, and we must conquer those fears if we want to get the best out of our humanity. while licking my wounds, i got a lot of inspiration from my battles against deep blue. as the old russian saying goes, if you can't beat them, join them. then i thought, what if i could play with a computer — together with a computer at my side, combining our strengths, human intuition plus machine's calculation, human strategy, machine tactics, human experience, machine's memory. could it be the perfect game ever played?my idea came to life in 1998 under the name of advanced chess when i played this human-plus-machine competition against another elite player. but in this first experiment, we both failed to combine human and machine skills effectively. advanced chess found its home on the internet, and in 2005, a so-called freestyle chess tournament produced a revelation. a team of grandmasters and top machines participated, but the winners were not grandmasters, not a supercomputer. the winners were a pair of amateur american chess players operating three ordinary pcs at the same time. their skill of coaching their machines effectively counteracted the superior chess knowledge of their grandmaster opponents and much greater computational power of others. and i reached this formulation. a weak human player plus a machine plus a better process is superior to a very powerful machine alone, but more remarkably, is superior to a strong human player plus machine and an inferior process. this convinced me that we would need better interfaces to help us coach our machines towards more useful intelligence.human plus machine isn't the future, it's the present. everybody that's used online translation to get the gist of a news article from a foreign newspaper, knowing its far from perfect. then we use our human experience to make sense out of that, and then the machine learns from our corrections. this model is spreading and investing in medical diagnosis, security analysis. the machine crunches data, calculates probabilities, gets 80 percent of the way, 90 percent, making it easier for analysis and decision-making of the human party. but you are not going to send your kids to school in a self-driving car with 90 percent accuracy, even with 99 percent. so we need a leap forward to add a few more crucial decimal places.twenty years after my match with deep blue, second match, this sensational "the brain's last stand" headline has become commonplace as intelligent machines move in every sector, seemingly every day. but unlike in the past, when machines replaced farm animals, manual labor, now they are coming after people with college degrees and political influence. and as someone who fought machines and lost, i am here to tell you this is excellent, excellent news. eventually, every profession will have to feel these pressures or else it will mean humanity has ceased to make progress. we don't get to choose when and where technological progress stops. we cannot slow down. in fact, we have to speed up. our technology excels at removing difficulties and uncertainties from our lives, and so we must seek out ever more difficult, ever more uncertain challenges. machines have calculations. we have understanding. machines have instructions. we have purpose. machines have objectivity. we have passion. we should not worry about what our machines can do today. instead, we should worry about what they still cannot do today, because we will need the help of the new, intelligent machines to turn our grandest dreams into reality. and if we fail, if we fail, it's not because our machines are too intelligent, or not intelligent enough. if we fail, it's because we grew complacent and limited our ambitions. our humanity is not defined by any skill, like swinging a hammer or even playing chess.there's one thing only a human can do. that's dream. so let us dream big.thank you. <title = "Am I not human? A call for criminal justice reform">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'TED Residency', 'activism', 'crime', 'humanity', 'identity', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Human justice advocate">
she wrote: "when i become famous, i will tell everyone that i know a hero named marlon peterson."heroes rarely look like me. in fact, i'm what garbage looks like. no, not the most appealing way to open a talk or start a conversation, and perhaps you have some questions going through your head about that. why would this man say such a thing about himself? what does he mean? how can someone view him as a hero when he sees himself as garbage?i believe we learn more from questions than we do from answers. because when we're questioning something, we're invested in taking in some sort of new information, or grappling with some sort of ignorance that makes us feel uncomfortable. and that's why i'm here: to push us to question, even when it makes us uncomfortable.my parents are from trinidad and tobago, the southernmost island in the caribbean. trinidad is also home to the only acoustic instrument invented in the 20th century: the steel pan. deriving from the african drums and evolving from the genius of one of the ghettos in trinidad, a city called laventille, and the disregard of the american military ... well, i should tell you, america, during wwii, had military bases set up in trinidad, and when the war ended, they left the island littered with empty oil drums — their trash. so people from laventille repurposed the old drums left behind into the full chromatic scale: the steel pan. playing music now from beethoven to bob marley to 50 cent, those people literally made music out of garbage.twelve days before my 20th birthday, i was arrested for my role in a violent robbery attempt in lower manhattan. while people were sitting in a coffee shop, four people were shot. two were killed. five of us were arrested. we were all the products of trinidad and tobago. we were the "bad immigrants," or the "anchor babies" that trump and millions of americans easily malign. i was discarded, like waste material — and justifiably so to many. i eventually served 10 years, two months and seven days of a prison sentence. i was sentenced to a decade of punishment in a correctional institution. i was sentenced to irrelevance — the opposite of humanity.interestingly, it was during those years in prison that a series of letters redeemed me, helped me move beyond the darkness and the guilt associated with the worst moment of my young life. it gave me a sense that i was useful. she was 13 years old. she had wrote that she saw me as a hero. i remember reading that, and i remember crying when i read those words.she was one of over 50 students and 150 letters that i wrote during a mentoring correspondence program that i co-designed with a friend who was a teacher at a middle school in brooklyn, my hometown. we called it the young scholars program. every time those young people shared their stories with me, their struggles, every time they drew a picture of their favorite cartoon character and sent it to me, every time they said they depended on my letters or my words of advice, it boosted my sense of worthiness. it gave me a sense of what i could contribute to this planet. it transformed my life.because of those letters and what they shared with me, their stories of teen life, they gave me the permission, they gave me the courage to admit to myself that there were reasons — not excuses — but that there were reasons for that fateful day in october of 1999; that the trauma associated with living in a community where guns are easier to get than sneakers; that the trauma associated with being raped at gunpoint at the age of 14; that those are reasons for me why making that decision, that fatal decision, was not an unlikely proposition.because those letters mattered so much to me, because writing and receiving and having that communication with those folks so hugely impacted my life, i decided to share the opportunity with some friends of mine who were also inside with me. my friends bill and cory and arocks, all in prison for violent crimes also, shared their words of wisdom with the young people as well, and received the sense of relevancy in return. we are now published writers and youth program innovators and trauma experts and gun violence prevention advocates, and ted talkers and — and good daddies. that's what i call a positive return of investment.above all else, what building that program taught me was that when we sow, when we invest in the humanity of people no matter where they're at, we can reap amazing rewards.in this latest era of criminal justice reform, i often question and wonder why — why is it that so many believe that only those who have been convicted of nonviolent drug offenses merit empathy and recognized humanity? criminal justice reform is human justice. am i not human? when we invest in resources that amplify the relevancy of people in communities like laventille or parts of brooklyn or a ghetto near you, we can literally create the communities that we want.we can do better. we can do better than investing solely in law enforcement as a resource, because they don't give us a sense of relevancy that is at the core of why so many of us do so many harmful things in the pursuit of mattering. see, gun violence is just a visible display of a lot of underlying traumas. when we invest in the redemptive value of relevancy, we can render a return of both personal responsibility and healing. that's the people work i care about, because people work.family, i'm asking you to do the hard work, the difficult work, the churning work of bestowing undeserved kindness upon those who we can relegate as garbage, who we can disregard and discard easily. i'm asking myself.over the past two months, i've lost two friends to gun violence, both innocent bystanders. one was caught in a drive-by while walking home. the other was sitting in a café while eating breakfast, while on vacation in miami. i'm asking myself to see the redemptive value of relevancy in the people that murdered them, because of the hard work of seeing the value in me. i'm pushing us to challenge our own capacity to fully experience our humanity, by understanding the full biography of people who we can easily choose not to see, because heroes are waiting to be recognized, and music is waiting to be made.thank you. <title = "No one should die because they live too far from a doctor">
<tags = "['Africa', 'TED Prize', 'collaboration', 'disease', 'ebola', 'global development', 'global issues', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'illness', 'medicine', 'society', 'technology', 'virus']">
<occupation = "Physician">
i want to share with you something my father taught me: no condition is permanent. it's a lesson he shared with me again and again, and i learned it to be true the hard way.here i am in my fourth-grade class. this is my yearbook picture taken in my class in school in monrovia, liberia. my parents migrated from india to west africa in the 1970s, and i had the privilege of growing up there. i was nine years old, i loved kicking around a soccer ball, and i was a total math and science geek. i was living the kind of life that, really, any child would dream of. but no condition is permanent.on christmas eve in 1989, civil war erupted in liberia. the war started in the rural countryside, and within months, rebel armies had marched towards our hometown. my school shut down, and when the rebel armies captured the only international airport, people started panicking and fleeing. my mom came knocking one morning and said, "raj, pack your things — we have to go." we were rushed to the center of town, and there on a tarmac, we were split into two lines. i stood with my family in one line, and we were stuffed into the cargo hatch of a rescue plane. and there on a bench, i was sitting with my heart racing. as i looked out the open hatch, i saw hundreds of liberians in another line, children strapped to their backs. when they tried to jump in with us, i watched soldiers restrain them. they were not allowed to flee.we were the lucky ones. we lost what we had, but we resettled in america, and as immigrants, we benefitted from the community of supporters that rallied around us. they took my family into their home, they mentored me. and they helped my dad start a clothing shop. i'd visit my father on weekends as a teenager to help him sell sneakers and jeans. and every time business would get bad, he'd remind me of that mantra: no condition is permanent. that mantra and my parents' persistence and that community of supporters made it possible for me to go through college and eventually to medical school. i'd once had my hopes crushed in a war, but because of them, i had a chance to pursue my dream to become a doctor. my condition had changed.it had been 15 years since i escaped that airfield, but the memory of those two lines had not escaped my mind. i was a medical student in my mid-20s, and i wanted to go back to see if i could serve the people we'd left behind. but when i got back, what i found was utter destruction. the war had left us with just 51 doctors to serve a country of four million people. it would be like the city of san francisco having just 10 doctors. so if you got sick in the city where those few doctors remain, you might stand a chance. but if you got sick in the remote, rural rainforest communities, where you could be days from the nearest clinic — i was seeing my patients die from conditions no one should die from, all because they were getting to me too late. imagine you have a two-year-old who wakes up one morning with a fever, and you realize she could have malaria, and you know the only way to get her the medicine she needs would be to take her to the riverbed, get in a canoe, paddle to the other side and then walk for up to two days through the forest just to reach the nearest clinic.one billion people live in the world's most remote communities, and despite the advances we've made in modern medicine and technology, our innovations are not reaching the last mile. these communities have been left behind, because they've been thought too hard to reach and too difficult to serve. illness is universal; access to care is not. and realizing this lit a fire in my soul. no one should die because they live too far from a doctor or clinic. no condition should be permanent. and help in this case didn't come from the outside, it actually came from within. it came from the communities themselves.meet musu. way out in rural liberia, where most girls have not had a chance to finish primary school, musu had been persistent. at the age of 18, she completed high school, and she came back to her community. she saw that none of the children were getting treatment for the diseases they needed treatment for — deadly diseases, like malaria and pneumonia. so she signed up to be a volunteer. there are millions of volunteers like musu in rural parts around our world, and we got to thinking — community members like musu could actually help us solve a puzzle.our health care system is structured in such a way that the work of diagnosing disease and prescribing medicines is limited to a team of nurses and doctors like me. but nurses and doctors are concentrated in cities, so rural communities like musu's have been left behind.so we started asking some questions: what if we could reorganize the medical care system? what if we could have community members like musu be a part or even be the center of our medical team? what if musu could help us bring health care from clinics in cities to the doorsteps of her neighbors? musu was 48 when i met her. and despite her amazing talent and grit, she hadn't had a paying job in 30 years. so what if technology could support her? what if we could invest in her with real training, equip her with real medicines, and have her have a real job?well, in 2007, i was trying to answer these questions, and my wife and i were getting married that year. we asked our relatives to forgo the wedding registry gifts and instead donate some money so we could have some start-up money to launch a nonprofit. i promise you, i'm a lot more romantic than that. we ended up raising $6,000, teamed up with some liberians and americans and launched a nonprofit called last mile health. our goal is to bring a health worker within reach of everyone, everywhere. we designed a three-step process — train, equip and pay — to invest more deeply in volunteers like musu to become paraprofessionals, to become community health workers.first we trained musu to prevent, diagnose and treat the top 10 diseases afflicting families in her village. a nurse supervisor visited her every month to coach her. we equipped her with modern medical technology, like this $1 malaria rapid test, and put it in a backpack full of medicines like this to treat infections like pneumonia, and crucially, a smartphone, to help her track and report on epidemics. last, we recognized the dignity in musu's work. with the liberian government, we created a contract, paid her and gave her the chance to have a real job. and she's amazing.musu has learned over 30 medical skills, from screening children for malnutrition, to assessing the cause of a child's cough with a smartphone, to supporting people with hiv and providing follow-up care to patients who've lost their limbs. working as part of our team, working as paraprofessionals, community health workers can help ensure that a lot of what your family doctor would do reaches the places that most family doctors could never go.one of my favorite things to do is to care for patients with community health workers. so last year i was visiting a.b., and like musu, a.b. had had a chance to go to school. he was in middle school, in the eighth grade, when his parents died. he became an orphan and had to drop out. last year, we hired and trained a.b. as a community health worker. and while he was making door to door house calls, he met this young boy named prince, whose mother had had trouble breastfeeding him, and by the age of six months, prince had started to waste away. a.b. had just been taught how to use this color-coded measuring tape that wraps around the upper arm of a child to diagnose malnutrition. a.b. noticed that prince was in the red zone, which meant he had to be hospitalized.so a.b. took prince and his mother to the river, got in a canoe and paddled for four hours to get to the hospital. later, after prince was discharged, a.b. taught mom how to feed baby a food supplement. a few months ago, a.b. took me to visit prince, and he's a chubby little guy. he's meeting his milestones, he's pulled himself up to a stand, and is even starting to say a few words. i'm so inspired by these community health workers. i often ask them why they do what they do, and when i asked a.b., he said, "doc, since i dropped out of school, this is the first time i'm having a chance to hold a pen to write. my brain is getting fresh."the stories of a.b. and musu have taught me something fundamental about being human. our will to serve others can actually help us transform our own conditions. i was so moved by how powerful the will to serve our neighbors can be a few years ago, when we faced a global catastrophe.in december 2013, something happened in the rainforests across the border from us in guinea. a toddler named emile fell sick with vomiting, fever and diarrhea. he lived in an area where the roads were sparse and there had been massive shortages of health workers. emile died, and a few weeks later his sister died, and a few weeks later his mother died. and this disease would spread from one community to another. and it wasn't until three months later that the world recognized this as ebola. when every minute counted, we had already lost months, and by then the virus had spread like wildfire all across west africa, and eventually to other parts of the world. businesses shut down, airlines started canceling routes.at the height of the crisis, when we were told that 1.4 million people could be infected, when we were told that most of them would die, when we had nearly lost all hope, i remember standing with a group of health workers in the rainforest where an outbreak had just happened. we were helping train and equip them to put on the masks, the gloves and the gowns that they needed to keep themselves safe from the virus while they were serving their patients. i remember the fear in their eyes. and i remember staying up at night, terrified if i'd made the right call to keep them in the field.when ebola threatened to bring humanity to its knees, liberia's community health workers didn't surrender to fear. they did what they had always done: they answered the call to serve their neighbors. community members across liberia learned the symptoms of ebola, teamed up with nurses and doctors to go door-to-door to find the sick and get them into care. they tracked thousands of people who had been exposed to the virus and helped break the chain of transmission. some ten thousand community health workers risked their own lives to help hunt down this virus and stop it in its tracks. today, ebola has come under control in west africa, and we've learned a few things. we've learned that blind spots in rural health care can lead to hot spots of disease, and that places all of us at greater risk. we've learned that the most efficient emergency system is actually an everyday system, and that system has to reach all communities, including rural communities like emile's. and most of all, we've learned from the courage of liberia's community health workers that we as people are not defined by the conditions we face, no matter how hopeless they seem. we're defined by how we respond to them.for the past 15 years, i've seen the power of this idea to transform everyday citizens into community health workers — into everyday heroes. and i've seen it play out everywhere, from the forest communities of west africa, to the rural fishing villages of alaska. it's true, these community health workers aren't doing neurosurgery, but they're making it possible to bring health care within reach of everyone everywhere.so now what? well, we know that there are still millions of people dying from preventable causes in rural communities around the world. and we know that the great majority of these deaths are happening in these 75 blue-shaded countries. what we also know is that if we trained an army of community health workers to learn even just 30 lifesaving skills, we could save the lives of nearly 30 million people by 2030. thirty services could save 30 million lives by 2030. that's not just a blueprint — we're proving this can be done.in liberia, the liberian government is training thousands of workers like a.b. and musu after ebola, to bring health care to every child and family in the country. and we've been honored to work with them, and are now teaming up with a number of organizations that are working across other countries to try to help them do the same thing. if we could help these countries scale, we could save millions of lives, and at the same time, we could create millions of jobs.we simply can't do that, though, without technology. people are worried that technology is going to steal our jobs, but when it comes to community health workers, technology has actually been vital for creating jobs. without technology — without this smartphone, without this rapid test — it would have been impossible for us to be able to employ a.b. and musu. and i think it's time for technology to help us train, to help us train people faster and better than ever before.as a doctor, i use technology to stay up-to-date and keep certified. i use smartphones, i use apps, i use online courses. but when a.b. wants to learn, he's got to jump back in that canoe and get to the training center. and when musu shows up for training, her instructors are stuck using flip charts and markers. why shouldn't they have the same access to learn as i do? if we truly want community health workers to master those lifesaving skills and even more, we've got to change this old-school model of education. tech can truly be a game changer here. i've been in awe of the digital education revolution that the likes of khan academy and edx have been leading. and i've been thinking that it's time; it's time for a collision between the digital education revolution and the community health revolution.and so, this brings me to my ted prize wish. i wish — i wish that you would help us recruit the largest army of community health workers the world has ever known by creating the community health academy, a global platform to train, connect and empower. thank you. thank you.here's the idea: we'll create and curate the best in digital education resources. we will bring those to community health workers around the world, including a.b. and musu. they'll get video lessons on giving kids vaccines and have online courses on spotting the next outbreak, so they're not stuck using flip charts. we'll help these countries accredit these workers, so that they're not stuck remaining an under-recognized, undervalued group, but become a renowned, empowered profession, just like nurses and doctors.and we'll create a network of companies and entrepreneurs who've created innovations that can save lives and help them connect to workers like musu, so she can help better serve her community. and we'll work tirelessly to persuade governments to make community health workers a cornerstone of their health care plans. we plan to test and prototype the academy in liberia and a few other partner countries, and then we plan to take it global, including to rural north america. with the power of this platform, we believe countries can be more persuaded that a health care revolution really is possible.my dream is that this academy will contribute to the training of hundreds of thousands of community members to help bring health care to their neighbors — the hundreds of millions of them that live in the world's most remote communities, from the forest communities of west africa, to the fishing villages of rural alaska; from the hilltops of appalachia, to the mountains of afghanistan. if this vision is aligned with yours, head to communityhealthacademy.org, and join this revolution. let us know if you or your organization or someone you know could help us as we try to build this academy over the next year.now, as i look out into this room, i realize that our journeys are not self-made; they're shaped by others. and there have been so many here that have been part of this cause. we're so honored to be part of this community, and a community that's willing to take on a cause as audacious as this one, so i wanted to offer, as i end, a reflection.i think a lot more about what my father taught me. these days, i too have become a dad. i have two sons, and my wife and i just learned that she's pregnant with our third child. thank you. i was recently caring for a woman in liberia who, like my wife, was in her third pregnancy. but unlike my wife, had had no prenatal care with her first two babies. she lived in an isolated community in the forest that had gone for 100 years without any health care until ... until last year when a nurse trained her neighbors to become community health workers.so here i was, seeing this patient who was in her second trimester, and i pulled out the ultrasound to check on the baby, and she started telling us stories about her first two kids, and i had the ultrasound probe on her belly, and she just stopped mid-sentence. she turned to me and she said, "doc, what's that sound?" it was the first time she'd ever heard her baby's heartbeat. and her eyes lit up in the same way my wife's eyes and my own eyes lit up when we heard our baby's heartbeat.for all of human history, illness has been universal and access to care has not. but as a wise man once told me: no condition is permanent. it's time. it's time for us to go as far as it takes to change this condition together.thank you. <title = "Songs that bring history to life">
<tags = "['history', 'live music', 'music']">
<occupation = "Musician">
(sings) water boy(guitar strum)where are you hidin'?(guitar strum)if you don't come right here, i'm gonna tell your pa on you.(guitar strum)there ain't no hammer —(guitar strum)that's on this mountain(guitar strum)that ring like mine, boy —(guitar strum)that ring like mine.(guitar strum)i'm gonna bust this rock, boy —(guitar strum)from here to macon.(guitar strum)all the way to the jail, boy —(guitar strum)all the way to the jail.(guitar strum)you jack of diamonds —(music)you jack of diamonds i know you of old boy, i know you of old. you done robbed my pocket, you done robbed my pocket of silver and gold, boy, of silver and gold.water boy, where are you hidin'? if you don't come right here, i'm gonna tell your pa on you. there ain't no hammer that's on this mountain that ring like mine, boy, that ring like mine.i'm gonna bust this rock, boy, from here to macon. all the way to the jail, boy, all the way to the jail.water boy(guitar strum)where are you hidin'?(guitar strum)if you don't come right here, if you don't come right here, if you don't come right here, i'm gonna tell your pa on you.(guitar strum) thank you.that was a song based on numerous work songs, and it was arranged by odetta, a hero of mine. and this next song, well, i do a lot of historical music, starting with the carolina chocolate drops and continuing on in my solo endeavors. and i believe that knowing your history as a musician is super important — it's important as a person, it's important as a country, it's important as a people.so i read a lot about where the music comes from and where this country comes from. i've been reading a lot about the civil war and about slavery. and it's really tough. you know? it's really tough reading. and so as an artist, what i do with all that emotion, reading these people's stories, not just, "oh, slavery was terrible." yes, it was. but it's reading individual narratives of how it was for these people. you know? then it's like, "yeah, that could've been me." and it is people now. you know? so what you do with all that emotion is you've got to do something with it. as an artist, i write. so i wrote a song based on some of those narratives that i read, and it's called, "come love come." we're going to do it for you now.(claps)(sings) come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.(music)(sings) when i was four, my loving mam was cornered by the boss's man. she turned her head and got struck down, they buried her in the cold, cold ground.come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.(music)when i was 12, my father dear was strong of arm and free of fear until the day he raised his hand, then he was sold to alabama.come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.(music)when i was 16, found my bloom and found my man, we jumped the broom. we pledged each other the rest of our lives and on saturday nights we were man and wife.come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.(music)when i was 18, bugles called and boys in blue came o'er the wall. i took my chance and followed free, they led the way to tennessee.come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.(music)now here i sit in a tiny shack with 13 others at my back. i've sent you word, so all i can do is wait and wait and wait and wait and wait and wait for you.come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.come love come, the road lies low, the way is long and hard, i know. come love come, the road lies free, i'll wait for you in tennessee.oh, oh, oh. whoa ... oh i'll wait for you.i'll wait for you. i'll wait for you i'll wait for you. thank you.so, with the dark you have to have the light. and in the african-american community, it's been the work of many hundreds of years to find a way to lift ourselves up. so i'm going to end with a couple of tunes from sister rosetta tharpe, one of the more influential american music figures that most of you probably never heard of. if you have, i'm so happy. she's one of the innovators of rock 'n' roll guitar, and one of the first crossover artists from gospel to secular. she's an incredibly important figure, and i'm going to talk about her whenever i can. so these are a couple of her tunes. and don't worry — you're going to get your chance to sing.(music)(sings) look down, look down that lonesome road before you travel on.look up, look up and greet your maker, for gabriel blows his horn.weary totin' such a load, goin' down that lonesome road. look down that lonesome road, before you travel on.look down, look down that lonesome road before you travel on.look up, look up and greet your maker, for gabriel blows his horn.weary totin' such a load, goin' down that lonesome road.look down, look down, look down, look down that lonesome road before you travel on.up above my head up above my head i hear music in the air music in the air.up above my head up above my head i hear music in the air i hear music in the air.up above my head up above my head i hear music in the air music in the airand i really do believe i really do believe there's a heaven somewhere.up above my head up above my head i hear singin' in the air singin' in the air.up above my head up above my head i hear singin' in the air i hear singin' in the air.up above my head up above my head i hear singin' in the air singin' in the air and i really do believe i really do believe there's a heaven somewhere.(speaks) all right now, guitar man!(guitar music)that's hubby jenkins, y'all.(sings) up above my head up above my head i hear shoutin' in the air shoutin' in the air.up above my head up above my head i hear shoutin' in the air i hear shoutin' in the air.up above my head up above my head i hear shoutin' in the air, that's right, and i really do believe i really do believe there's a heaven somewhere.(speaks) all right now, give me some of that bass.(bass solo)yeah! woo!jason sypher on the bass.jamie dick on those drums.all right now, i'm running out of time. so it's time for y'all to sing. this is the call-and-response. i call, you respond. there are so many songs like this, y'all know how it goes, don't you? you're going to sing along? i said, are you going to sing along?audience members: yes!rhiannon giddens: here we go!(sings) up above my headam: up above my headrg: music in the airam: music in the air.rg: up above my headam: up above my headrg: music in the airam: music in the airrg: up above my headam: up above my headrg: music in the airam: music in the airrg: and i really do believe i really do believe there's a heaven somewhere.one more time!up above my headam: up above my headrg: i hear music in the airam: music in the air.rg: up above my headam: up above my headrg: i hear music in the airam: music in the air.rg: up above my headam: up above my headrg: i hear music in the airam: music in the airrg: and i really do believe i really do believe there's a heaven somewhere. i said i really do believe i really do believe there's a heaven somewhere.heaven somewhere.(holds note)(applause and cheers)(music ends) <title = "How to design a library that makes kids want to read ">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'design', 'education', 'library']">
<occupation = "Designer, critic">
so there's this thing called the law of unintended consequences. i thought it was just like a saying, but it actually exists, i guess. there's, like, academic papers about it. and i'm a designer. i don't like unintended consequences. people hire me because they have consequences that they really intend, and what they intend is for me to help them achieve those consequences. so i live in fear of unintended consequences. and so this is a story about consequences intended and unintended.i got called by an organization called robin hood to do a favor for them. robin hood is based in new york, a wonderful philanthropic organization that does what it says in the name. they take from rich people, give it to poor people. in this case, what they wanted to benefit was the new york city school system, a huge enterprise that educates more than a million students at a time, and in buildings that are like this one, old buildings, big buildings, drafty buildings, sometimes buildings that are in disrepair, certainly buildings that could use a renovation. robin hood had this ambition to improve these buildings in some way, but what they realized was to fix the buildings would be too expensive and impractical. so instead they tried to figure out what one room they could go into in each of these buildings, in as many buildings that they could, and fix that one room so that they could improve the lives of the children inside as they were studying. and what they came up with was the school library, and they came up with this idea called the library initiative. all the students have to pass through the library. that's where the books are. that's where the heart and soul of the school is. so let's fix these libraries.so they did this wonderful thing where they brought in first 10, then 20, then more architects, each one of whom was assigned a library to rethink what a library was. they trained special librarians. so they started this mighty enterprise to reform public schools by improving these libraries. then they called me up and they said, "could you make a little contribution?" i said, "sure, what do you want me to do?" and they said, "well, we want you to be the graphic designer in charge of the whole thing." and so i thought, i know what that means. that means i get to design a logo. i know how to design that. i design logos. that's what people come to me for. so ok, let's design a logo for this thing. easy to do, actually, compared with architecture and being a librarian. just do a logo, make a contribution, and then you're out, and you feel really good about yourself. and i'm a great guy and i like to feel good about myself when i do these favors.so i thought, let's overdeliver. i'm going to give you three logos, all based on this one idea. so you have three options, pick any of the three. they're all great, i said. so the basic idea was these would be new school libraries for new york schools, and so the idea is that it's a new thing, a new idea that needs a new name. what i wanted to do was dispel the idea that these were musty old libraries, the kind of places that everyone is bored with, you know, not your grandparents' library. don't worry about that at all. this is going to this new, exciting thing, not a boring library.so option number one: so instead of thinking of it as a library, think of it as a place where it is like: do talk, do make loud noises. right? so no shushing, it's like a shush-free zone. we're going to call it the reading room.that was option number one. ok, option number two. option number two was, wait for it, owl. i'll meet you at owl. i'm getting my book from the owl. meet you after school down at owl. i like that, right? now, what does owl stand for? well, it could be one world library, or it could be open. wonder. learn. or it could be — and i figure librarians could figure out other things it could be because they know about words. so other things, right? and then look at this. it's like the eye of the owl. this is irresistible in my opinion.but there's even another idea. option number three. option number three was based actually on language. it's the idea that "read" is the past tense of "read," and they're both spelled the same way. so why don't we call this place the red zone? i'll meet you at the red zone. are you red? get red. i'm well red. i really loved this idea, and i somehow was not focused on the idea that librarians as a class are sort of interested in spelling and i don't know. but sometimes cleverness is more important than spelling, and i thought this would be one of those instances. so usually when i make these presentations i say there's just one question and the question should be, "how can i thank you, mike?" but in this case, the question was more like, "um, are you kidding?" because, they said, the premise of all this work was that kids were bored with old libraries, musty old libraries. they were tired of them. and instead, they said, these kids have never really seen a library. the school libraries in these schools are really so dilapidated, if they're there at all, that they haven't bored anyone. they haven't even been there to bore anyone at all. so the idea was, just forget about giving it a new name. just call it, one last try, a library. right? ok. so i thought, ok, give it a little oomph? exclamation point? then — this is because i'm clever — move that into the "i," make it red, and there you have it, the library initiative. so i thought, mission accomplished, there's your logo. so what's interesting about this logo, an unintended consequence, was that it turned out that they didn't really even need my design because you could type it any font, you could write it by hand, and when they started sending emails around, they just would use shift and 1, they'd get their own logo just right out of the thing. and i thought, well, that's fine. feel free to use that logo. and then i embarked on the real rollout of this thing — working with every one of the architects to put this logo on the front door of their own library. right?so here's the big rollout. basically i'd work with different architects. first robin hood was my client. now these architects were my client. i'd say, "here's your logo. put it on the door." "here's your logo. put it on both doors." "here's your logo. put it off to the side." "here's your logo repeated all over to the top." so everything was going swimmingly. i just was saying, "here's your logo. here's your logo."then i got a call from one of the architects, a guy named richard lewis, and he says, "i've got a problem. you're the graphics guy. can you solve it?" and i said, ok, sure." and he said, "the problem is that there's a space between the shelf and the ceiling." so that sounds like an architectural issue to me, not a graphic design issue, so i'm, "go on." and richard says, "well, the top shelf has to be low enough for the kid to reach it, but i'm in a big old building, and the ceilings are really high, so actually i've got all this space up there and i need something like a mural." and i'm like, "whoa, you know, i'm a logo designer. i'm not diego rivera or something. i'm not a muralist." and so he said, "but can't you think of anything?" so i said, "ok, what if we just took pictures of the kids in the school and just put them around the top of the thing, and maybe that could work." and my wife is a photographer, and i said, "dorothy, there's no budget, can you come to this school in east new york, take these pictures?" and she did, and if you go in richard's library, which is one of the first that opened, it has this glorious frieze of, like, the heroes of the school, oversized, looking down into the little dollhouse of the real library, right? and the kids were great, hand-selected by the principals and the librarian. it just kind of created this heroic atmosphere in this library, this very dignified setting below and the joy of the children above.so naturally all the other librarians in the other schools see this and they said, well, we want murals too. and i'm like, ok. so then i think, well, it can't be the same mural every time, so dorothy did another one, and then she did another one, but then we needed more help, so i called an illustrator i knew named lynn pauley, and lynn did these beautiful paintings of the kids. then i called a guy named charles wilkin at a place called automatic design. he did these amazing collages. we had rafael esquer do these great silhouettes. he would work with the kids, asking for words, and then based on those prompts, come up with this little, delirious kind of constellation of silhouettes of things that are in books. peter arkle interviewed the kids and had them talk about their favorite books and he put their testimony as a frieze up there. stefan sagmeister worked with yuko shimizu and they did this amazing manga-style statement, "everyone who is honest is interesting," that goes all the way around. christoph niemann, brilliant illustrator, did a whole series of things where he embedded books into the faces and characters and images and places that you find in the books. and then even maira kalman did this amazing cryptic installation of objects and words that kind of go all around and will fascinate students for as long as it's up there.so this was really satisfying, and basically my role here was reading a series of dimensions to these artists, and i would say, "three feet by 15 feet, whatever you want. let me know if you have any problem with that." and they would go and install these. it just was the greatest thing.but the greatest thing, actually, was — every once in a while, i'd get, like, an invitation in the mail made of construction paper, and it would say, "you are invited to the opening of our new library." so you'd go to the library, say, you'd go to ps10, and you'd go inside. there'd be balloons, there'd be a student ambassador, there'd be speeches that were read, poetry that was written specifically for the opening, dignitaries would present people with certificates, and the whole thing was just a delirious, fun party. so i loved going to these things. i would stand there dressed like this, obviously not belonging, and someone would say, "what are you doing here, mister?" and i'd say, "well, i'm part of the team that designed this place." and they'd said, "you do these shelves?" and i said, "no." "you took the pictures up above." "no." "well, what did you do?" "you know when you came in? the sign over the door?" "the sign that says library?" "yeah, i did that!" and then they'd sort of go, "ok. nice work if you can get it." so it was so satisfying going to these little openings despite the fact that i was kind of largely ignored or humiliated, but it was actually fun going to the openings, so i decided that i wanted to get the people in my office who had worked on these projects, get the illustrators and photographers, and i said, why don't we rent a van and drive around the five boroughs of new york and see how many we could hit at one time. and eventually there were going to be 60 of these libraries, so we probably got to see maybe half a dozen in one long day. and the best thing of all was meeting these librarians who kind of were running these, took possession of these places like their private stage upon which they were invited to mesmerize their students and bring the books to life, and it was just this really exciting experience for all of us to actually see these things in action. so we spent a long day doing this and we were in the very last library. it was still winter, because it got dark early, and the librarian says, "i'm about to close down. so really nice having you here. hey, wait a second, do you want to see how i turn off the lights?" i'm like, "ok." and she said, "i have this special way that i do it." and then she showed me. what she did was she turned out every light one by one by one by one, and the last light she left on was the light that illuminated the kids' faces, and she said, "that's the last light i turn off every night, because i like to remind myself why i come to work."so when i started this whole thing, remember, it was just about designing that logo and being clever, come up with a new name? the unintended consequence here, which i would like to take credit for and like to think i can think through the experience to that extent, but i can't. i was just focused on a foot ahead of me, as far as i could reach with my own hands. instead, way off in the distance was a librarian who was going to find the chain of consequences that we had set in motion, a source of inspiration so that she in this case could do her work really well. 40,000 kids a year are affected by these libraries. they've been happening for more than 10 years now, so those librarians have kind of turned on a generation of children to books and so it's been a thrill to find out that sometimes unintended consequences are the best consequences.thank you very much. <title = "How to see past your own perspective and find truth">
<tags = "['Internet', 'communication', 'democracy', 'identity', 'intelligence', 'news', 'personal growth', 'philosophy', 'politics', 'social change', 'social media', 'society']">
<occupation = "Philosopher">
so, imagine that you had your smartphone miniaturized and hooked up directly to your brain. if you had this sort of brain chip, you'd be able to upload and download to the internet at the speed of thought. accessing social media or wikipedia would be a lot like — well, from the inside at least — like consulting your own memory. it would be as easy and as intimate as thinking. but would it make it easier for you to know what's true? just because a way of accessing information is faster it doesn't mean it's more reliable, of course, and it doesn't mean that we would all interpret it the same way. and it doesn't mean that you would be any better at evaluating it. in fact, you might even be worse, because, you know, more data, less time for evaluation.something like this is already happening to us right now. we already carry a world of information around in our pockets, but it seems as if the more information we share and access online, the more difficult it can be for us to tell the difference between what's real and what's fake. it's as if we know more but understand less.now, it's a feature of modern life, i suppose, that large swaths of the public live in isolated information bubbles. we're polarized: not just over values, but over the facts. one reason for that is, the data analytics that drive the internet get us not just more information, but more of the information that we want. our online life is personalized; everything from the ads we read to the news that comes down our facebook feed is tailored to satisfy our preferences. and so while we get more information, a lot of that information ends up reflecting ourselves as much as it does reality. it ends up, i suppose, inflating our bubbles rather than bursting them. and so maybe it's no surprise that we're in a situation, a paradoxical situation, of thinking that we know so much more, and yet not agreeing on what it is we know.so how are we going to solve this problem of knowledge polarization? one obvious tactic is to try to fix our technology, to redesign our digital platforms, so as to make them less susceptible to polarization. and i'm happy to report that many smart people at google and facebook are working on just that. and these projects are vital. i think that fixing technology is obviously really important, but i don't think technology alone, fixing it, is going to solve the problem of knowledge polarization. i don't think that because i don't think, at the end of the day, it is a technological problem. i think it's a human problem, having to do with how we think and what we value.in order to solve it, i think we're going to need help. we're going to need help from psychology and political science. but we're also going to need help, i think, from philosophy. because to solve the problem of knowledge polarization, we're going to need to reconnect with one fundamental, philosophical idea: that we live in a common reality. the idea of a common reality is like, i suppose, a lot of philosophical concepts: easy to state but mysteriously difficult to put into practice. to really accept it, i think we need to do three things, each of which is a challenge right now.first, we need to believe in truth. you might have noticed that our culture is having something of a troubled relationship with that concept right now. it seems as if we disagree so much that, as one political commentator put it not long ago, it's as if there are no facts anymore. but that thought is actually an expression of a sort of seductive line of argument that's in the air. it goes like this: we just can't step outside of our own perspectives; we can't step outside of our biases. every time we try, we just get more information from our perspective. so, this line of thought goes, we might as well admit that objective truth is an illusion, or it doesn't matter, because either we'll never know what it is, or it doesn't exist in the first place.that's not a new philosophical thought — skepticism about truth. during the end of the last century, as some of you know, it was very popular in certain academic circles. but it really goes back all the way to the greek philosopher protagoras, if not farther back. protagoras said that objective truth was an illusion because "man is the measure of all things." man is the measure of all things. that can seem like a bracing bit of realpolitik to people, or liberating, because it allows each of us to discover or make our own truth.but actually, i think it's a bit of self-serving rationalization disguised as philosophy. it confuses the difficulty of being certain with the impossibility of truth. look — of course it's difficult to be certain about anything; we might all be living in "the matrix." you might have a brain chip in your head feeding you all the wrong information. but in practice, we do agree on all sorts of facts. we agree that bullets can kill people. we agree that you can't flap your arms and fly. we agree — or we should — that there is an external reality and ignoring it can get you hurt.nonetheless, skepticism about truth can be tempting, because it allows us to rationalize away our own biases. when we do that, we're sort of like the guy in the movie who knew he was living in "the matrix" but decided he liked it there, anyway. after all, getting what you want feels good. being right all the time feels good. so, often it's easier for us to wrap ourselves in our cozy information bubbles, live in bad faith, and take those bubbles as the measure of reality.an example, i think, of how this bad faith gets into our action is our reaction to the phenomenon of fake news. the fake news that spread on the internet during the american presidential election of 2016 was designed to feed into our biases, designed to inflate our bubbles. but what was really striking about it was not just that it fooled so many people. what was really striking to me about fake news, the phenomenon, is how quickly it itself became the subject of knowledge polarization; so much so, that the very term — the very term — "fake news" now just means: "news story i don't like." that's an example of the bad faith towards the truth that i'm talking about.but the really, i think, dangerous thing about skepticism with regard to truth is that it leads to despotism. "man is the measure of all things" inevitably becomes "the man is the measure of all things." just as "every man for himself" always seems to turn out to be "only the strong survive."at the end of orwell's "1984," the thought policeman o'brien is torturing the protagonist winston smith into believing two plus two equals five. what o'brien says is the point, is that he wants to convince smith that whatever the party says is the truth, and the truth is whatever the party says. and what o'brien knows is that once this thought is accepted, critical dissent is impossible. you can't speak truth to power if the power speaks truth by definition.i said that in order to accept that we really live in a common reality, we have to do three things. the first thing is to believe in truth. the second thing can be summed up by the latin phrase that kant took as the motto for the enlightenment: "sapere aude," or "dare to know." or as kant wants, "to dare to know for yourself."i think in the early days of the internet, a lot of us thought that information technology was always going to make it easier for us to know for ourselves, and of course in many ways, it has. but as the internet has become more and more a part of our lives, our reliance on it, our use of it, has become often more passive. much of what we know today we google-know. we download prepackaged sets of facts and sort of shuffle them along the assembly line of social media. now, google-knowing is useful precisely because it involves a sort of intellectual outsourcing. we offload our effort onto a network of others and algorithms. and that allows us, of course, to not clutter our minds with all sorts of facts. we can just download them when we need them. and that's awesome.but there's a difference between downloading a set of facts and really understanding how or why those facts are as they are. understanding why a particular disease spreads, or how a mathematical proof works, or why your friend is depressed, involves more than just downloading. it's going to require, most likely, doing some work for yourself: having a little creative insight; using your imagination; getting out into the field; doing the experiment; working through the proof; talking to someone.now, i'm not saying, of course, that we should stop google-knowing. i'm just saying we shouldn't overvalue it, either. we need to find ways of encouraging forms of knowing that are more active, and don't always involve passing off our effort into our bubble. because the thing about google-knowing is that too often it ends up being bubble-knowing. and bubble-knowing means always being right. but daring to know, daring to understand, means risking the possibility that you could be wrong. it means risking the possibility that what you want and what's true are different things.which brings me to the third thing that i think we need to do if we want to accept that we live in a common reality. that third thing is: have a little humility. by humility here, i mean epistemic humility, which means, in a sense, knowing that you don't know it all. but it also means something more than that. it means seeing your worldview as open to improvement by the evidence and experience of others. seeing your worldview as open to improvement by the evidence and experience of others. that's more than just being open to change. it's more than just being open to self-improvement. it means seeing your knowledge as capable of enhancing or being enriched by what others contribute. that's part of what is involved in recognizing there's a common reality that you, too, are responsible to.i don't think it's much of a stretch to say that our society is not particularly great at enhancing or encouraging that sort of humility. that's partly because, well, we tend to confuse arrogance and confidence. and it's partly because, well, you know, arrogance is just easier. it's just easier to think of yourself as knowing it all. it's just easier to think of yourself as having it all figured out. but that's another example of the bad faith towards the truth that i've been talking about.so the concept of a common reality, like a lot of philosophical concepts, can seem so obvious, that we can look right past it and forget why it's important. democracies can't function if their citizens don't strive, at least some of the time, to inhabit a common space, a space where they can pass ideas back and forth when — and especially when — they disagree. but you can't strive to inhabit that space if you don't already accept that you live in the same reality. to accept that, we've got to believe in truth, we've got to encourage more active ways of knowing. and we've got to have the humility to realize that we're not the measure of all things.we may yet one day realize the vision of having the internet in our brains. but if we want that to be liberating and not terrifying, if we want it to expand our understanding and not just our passive knowing, we need to remember that our perspectives, as wondrous, as beautiful as they are, are just that — perspectives on one reality.thank you. <title = "Why glass towers are bad for city life -- and what we need instead">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'architecture', 'beauty', 'cities', 'community', 'journalism', 'materials', 'public spaces', 'society', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Architecture critic">
imagine that when you walked in here this evening, you discovered that everybody in the room looked almost exactly the same: ageless, raceless, generically good-looking. that person sitting right next to you might have the most idiosyncratic inner life, but you don't have a clue because we're all wearing the same blank expression all the time. that is the kind of creepy transformation that is taking over cities, only it applies to buildings, not people.cities are full of roughness and shadow, texture and color. you can still find architectural surfaces of great individuality and character in apartment buildings in riga and yemen, social housing in vienna, hopi villages in arizona, brownstones in new york, wooden houses in san francisco. these aren't palaces or cathedrals. these are just ordinary residences expressing the ordinary splendor of cities. and the reason they're like that is that the need for shelter is so bound up with the human desire for beauty. their rough surfaces give us a touchable city. right? streets that you can read by running your fingers over brick and stone.but that's getting harder to do, because cities are becoming smooth. new downtowns sprout towers that are almost always made of concrete and steel and covered in glass. you can look at skylines all over the world — houston, guangzhou, frankfurt — and you see the same army of high-gloss robots marching over the horizon. now, just think of everything we lose when architects stop using the full range of available materials. when we reject granite and limestone and sandstone and wood and copper and terra-cotta and brick and wattle and plaster, we simplify architecture and we impoverish cities. it's as if you reduced all of the world's cuisines down to airline food. chicken or pasta?but worse still, assemblies of glass towers like this one in moscow suggest a disdain for the civic and communal aspects of urban living. right? buildings like these are intended to enrich their owners and tenants, but not necessarily the lives of the rest of us, those of us who navigate the spaces between the buildings. and we expect to do so for free. shiny towers are an invasive species and they are choking our cities and killing off public space. we tend to think of a facade as being like makeup, a decorative layer applied at the end to a building that's effectively complete. but just because a facade is superficial doesn't mean it's not also deep.let me give you an example of how a city's surfaces affect the way we live in it. when i visited salamanca in spain, i gravitated to the plaza mayor at all hours of the day. early in the morning, sunlight rakes the facades, sharpening shadows, and at night, lamplight segments the buildings into hundreds of distinct areas, balconies and windows and arcades, each one a separate pocket of visual activity. that detail and depth, that glamour gives the plaza a theatrical quality. it becomes a stage where the generations can meet. you have teenagers sprawling on the pavers, seniors monopolizing the benches, and real life starts to look like an opera set. the curtain goes up on salamanca. so just because i'm talking about the exteriors of buildings, not form, not function, not structure, even so those surfaces give texture to our lives, because buildings create the spaces around them, and those spaces can draw people in or push them away. and the difference often has to do with the quality of those exteriors.so one contemporary equivalent of the plaza mayor in salamanca is the place de la défense in paris, a windswept, glass-walled open space that office workers hurry through on the way from the metro to their cubicles but otherwise spend as little time in as possible. in the early 1980s, the architect philip johnson tried to recreate a gracious european plaza in pittsburgh. this is ppg place, a half acre of open space encircled by commercial buildings made of mirrored glass. and he ornamented those buildings with metal trim and bays and gothic turrets which really pop on the skyline. but at ground level, the plaza feels like a black glass cage. i mean, sure, in summertime kids are running back and forth through the fountain and there's ice-skating in the winter, but it lacks the informality of a leisurely hangout. it's just not the sort of place you really want to just hang out and chat.public spaces thrive or fail for many different reasons. architecture is only one, but it's an important one. some recent plazas like federation square in melbourne or superkilen in copenhagen succeed because they combine old and new, rough and smooth, neutral and bright colors, and because they don't rely excessively on glass.now, i'm not against glass. it's an ancient and versatile material. it's easy to manufacture and transport and install and replace and clean. it comes in everything from enormous, ultraclear sheets to translucent bricks. new coatings make it change mood in the shifting light. in expensive cities like new york, it has the magical power of being able to multiply real estate values by allowing views, which is really the only commodity that developers have to offer to justify those surreal prices.in the middle of the 19th century, with the construction of the crystal palace in london, glass leapt to the top of the list of quintessentially modern substances. by the mid-20th century, it had come to dominate the downtowns of some american cities, largely through some really spectacular office buildings like lever house in midtown manhattan, designed by skidmore, owings and merrill. eventually, the technology advanced to the point where architects could design structures so transparent they practically disappear. and along the way, glass became the default material of the high-rise city, and there's a very powerful reason for that. because as the world's populations converge on cities, the least fortunate pack into jerry-built shantytowns. but hundreds of millions of people need apartments and places to work in ever-larger buildings, so it makes economic sense to put up towers and wrap them in cheap and practical curtain walls.but glass has a limited ability to be expressive. this is a section of wall framing a plaza in the pre-hispanic city of mitla, in southern mexico. those 2,000-year-old carvings make it clear that this was a place of high ritual significance. today we look at those and we can see a historical and textural continuity between those carvings, the mountains all around and that church which is built on top of the ruins using stone plundered from the site. in nearby oaxaca, even ordinary plaster buildings become canvasses for bright colors, political murals and sophisticated graphic arts. it's an intricate, communicative language that an epidemic of glass would simply wipe out.the good news is that architects and developers have begun to rediscover the joys of texture without backing away from modernity. some find innovative uses for old materials like brick and terra-cotta. others invent new products like the molded panels that snøhetta used to give the san francisco museum of modern art that crinkly, sculptural quality. the architect stefano boeri even created living facades. this is his vertical forest, a pair of apartment towers in milan, whose most visible feature is greenery. and boeri is designing a version of this for nanjing in china. and imagine if green facades were as ubiquitous as glass ones how much cleaner the air in chinese cities would become.but the truth is that these are mostly one-offs, boutique projects, not easily reproduced at a global scale. and that is the point. when you use materials that have a local significance, you prevent cities from all looking the same. copper has a long history in new york — the statue of liberty, the crown of the woolworth building — but it fell out of fashion for a long time until shop architects used it to cover the american copper building, a pair of twisting towers on the east river. it's not even finished and you can see the way sunset lights up that metallic facade, which will weather to green as it ages.buildings can be like people. their faces broadcast their experience. and that's an important point, because when glass ages, you just replace it, and the building looks pretty much the same way it did before until eventually it's demolished. almost all other materials have the ability to absorb infusions of history and memory, and project it into the present. the firm ennead clad the utah natural history museum in salt lake city in copper and zinc, ores that have been mined in the area for 150 years and that also camouflage the building against the ochre hills so that you have a natural history museum that reflects the region's natural history. and when the chinese pritzker prize winner wang shu was building a history museum in ningbo, he didn't just create a wrapper for the past, he built memory right into the walls by using brick and stones and shingles salvaged from villages that had been demolished.now, architects can use glass in equally lyrical and inventive ways. here in new york, two buildings, one by jean nouvel and this one by frank gehry face off across west 19th street, and the play of reflections that they toss back and forth is like a symphony in light. but when a city defaults to glass as it grows, it becomes a hall of mirrors, disquieting and cold. after all, cities are places of concentrated variety where the world's cultures and languages and lifestyles come together and mingle. so rather than encase all that variety and diversity in buildings of crushing sameness, we should have an architecture that honors the full range of the urban experience.thank you. <title = "To understand autism, don't look away">
<tags = "['Autism spectrum disorder', 'TED en Español', 'TEDx', 'art', 'children', 'communication', 'family', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Autism advocate">
"look at me!"that phrase turned me into an eye-contact coach. i'm the mother of ivan; he's 15 years old. ivan has autism, he doesn't speak, and he communicates through an ipad, where his whole universe of words exists in images.he was diagnosed when he was two and a half. i still remember that day painfully. my husband and i felt really lost; we didn't know where to begin. there was no internet, you couldn't google information, so we made those first steps out of sheer intuition.ivan would not maintain eye contact, he had lost the words that he did know, and he didn't respond to his name or to anything we asked him, as if words were noise. the only way i could know what was going on with him, what he felt, was looking him in the eye. but that bridge was broken.how could i teach him about life? when i did things he liked, he would look at me, and we were connected. so i dedicated myself to working with him on those things, so we would have more and more eye-contact moments. we would spend hours and hours playing tag with his older sister, alexia, and when we said: "i caught you!" he would look around for us, and at that moment, i could feel he was alive.we also hold a record for hours spent in a swimming pool. ivan always had a passion for water. i remember when he was two and a half, on a rainy winter day, i was taking him to an indoor pool, because even on rainy days we'd go swimming. we were on the highway, and i took the wrong exit. he burst into tears and cried inconsolably, nonstop, until i turned back. only then did he calm down.how was it possible that a two and a half year old didn't respond to his own name, yet in the middle of the rain and fog, where i couldn't see anything, he knew the exact route? that's when i realized that ivan had an exceptional visual memory, and that that would be my way in.so i started taking pictures of everything, and teaching him what life was like, showing it to him, picture by picture. even now, it's the way ivan communicates what he wants, what he needs and also what he feels.but it wasn't just ivan's eye contact that mattered. everyone else's did, too. how could i make people see not only his autism, but see him the person and everything he can give; everything he can do; the things he likes and doesn't like, just like any one of us? but for that, i also had to give of myself. i had to have the strength to let him go, which was extremely difficult.ivan was 11 years old, and he went for treatment in a neighborhood near our house. one afternoon, while i was waiting for him, i went into a greengrocer, a typical neighborhood store with a little bit of everything. while doing the shopping, i started talking to jose, the owner. i told him about ivan, that he had autism, and that i wanted him to learn to walk down the street by himself, without anyone holding his hand.so i decided to ask jose if thursdays around 2pm, ivan could come and help him arrange the water bottles on the shelves, because he loved to organize things. and as a reward, he could buy some chocolate cookies, which were his favorite. he said "yes" right away. so that's how it went for a year: ivan would go to jose's greengrocer, help him arrange the shelves of water bottles with the labels perfectly lined up on the same side, and he would leave happy with his chocolate cookies.jose is not an expert in autism. there is no need to be an expert nor do anything heroic to include someone. we just need to be there — (applause ends)really, no heroic deed — we simply need to be close. and if we are afraid of something or we don't understand something, we need to ask.let's be curious but never indifferent. let's have the courage to look each other in the eye, because by looking, we can open a whole world to someone else. (cheers)<title = "What happens in your brain when you pay attention?">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'brain', 'cognitive science', 'machine learning', 'mental health', 'neuroscience', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist">
paying close attention to something: not that easy, is it? it's because our attention is pulled in so many different directions at a time, and it's in fact pretty impressive if you can stay focused.many people think that attention is all about what we are focusing on, but it's also about what information our brain is trying to filter out.there are two ways you direct your attention. first, there's overt attention. in overt attention, you move your eyes towards something in order to pay attention to it. then there's covert attention. in covert attention, you pay attention to something, but without moving your eyes. think of driving for a second. your overt attention, your direction of the eyes, are in front, but that's your covert attention which is constantly scanning the surrounding area, where you don't actually look at them.i'm a computational neuroscientist, and i work on cognitive brain-machine interfaces, or bringing together the brain and the computer. i love brain patterns. brain patterns are important for us because based on them we can build models for the computers, and based on these models computers can recognize how well our brain functions. and if it doesn't function well, then these computers themselves can be used as assistive devices for therapies. but that also means something, because choosing the wrong patterns will give us the wrong models and therefore the wrong therapies. right? in case of attention, the fact that we can shift our attention not only by our eyes but also by thinking — that makes covert attention an interesting model for computers.so i wanted to know what are the brainwave patterns when you look overtly or when you look covertly. i set up an experiment for that. in this experiment there are two flickering squares, one of them flickering at a slower rate than the other one. depending on which of these flickers you are paying attention to, certain parts of your brain will start resonating in the same rate as that flickering rate. so by analyzing your brain signals, we can track where exactly you are watching or you are paying attention to.so to see what happens in your brain when you pay overt attention, i asked people to look directly in one of the squares and pay attention to it. in this case, not surprisingly, we saw that these flickering squares appeared in their brain signals which was coming from the back of their head, which is responsible for the processing of your visual information. but i was really interested to see what happens in your brain when you pay covert attention. so this time i asked people to look in the middle of the screen and without moving their eyes, to pay attention to either of these squares. when we did that, we saw that both of these flickering rates appeared in their brain signals, but interestingly, only one of them, which was paid attention to, had stronger signals, so there was something in the brain which was handling this information so that thing in the brain was basically the activation of the frontal area. the front part of your brain is responsible for higher cognitive functions as a human. the frontal part, it seems that it works as a filter trying to let information come in only from the right flicker that you are paying attention to and trying to inhibit the information coming from the ignored one.the filtering ability of the brain is indeed a key for attention, which is missing in some people, for example in people with adhd. so a person with adhd cannot inhibit these distractors, and that's why they can't focus for a long time on a single task. but what if this person could play a specific computer game with his brain connected to the computer, and then train his own brain to inhibit these distractors?well, adhd is just one example. we can use these cognitive brain-machine interfaces for many other cognitive fields. it was just a few years ago that my grandfather had a stroke, and he lost complete ability to speak. he could understand everybody, but there was no way to respond, even not writing because he was illiterate. so he passed away in silence. i remember thinking at that time: what if we could have a computer which could speak for him? now, after years that i am in this field, i can see that this might be possible. imagine if we can find brainwave patterns when people think about images or even letters, like the letter a generates a different brainwave pattern than the letter b, and so on. could a computer one day communicate for people who can't speak? what if a computer can help us understand the thoughts of a person in a coma? we are not there yet, but pay close attention. we will be there soon.thank you. <title = "12 truths I learned from life and writing">
<tags = "['Christianity', 'God', 'aging', 'art', 'beauty', 'birds', 'books', 'communication', 'family', 'friendship', 'funny', 'humanity', 'love', 'personal growth', 'self', 'society', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Novelist, essayist">
my seven-year-old grandson sleeps just down the hall from me, and he wakes up a lot of mornings and he says, "you know, this could be the best day ever." and other times, in the middle of the night, he calls out in a tremulous voice, "nana, will you ever get sick and die?"i think this pretty much says it for me and most of the people i know, that we're a mixed grill of happy anticipation and dread. so i sat down a few days before my 61st birthday, and i decided to compile a list of everything i know for sure. there's so little truth in the popular culture, and it's good to be sure of a few things.for instance, i am no longer 47, although this is the age i feel, and the age i like to think of myself as being. my friend paul used to say in his late 70s that he felt like a young man with something really wrong with him. our true person is outside of time and space, but looking at the paperwork, i can, in fact, see that i was born in 1954. my inside self is outside of time and space. it doesn't have an age. i'm every age i've ever been, and so are you, although i can't help mentioning as an aside that it might have been helpful if i hadn't followed the skin care rules of the '60s, which involved getting as much sun as possible while slathered in baby oil and basking in the glow of a tinfoil reflector shield. it was so liberating, though, to face the truth that i was no longer in the last throes of middle age, that i decided to write down every single true thing i know. people feel really doomed and overwhelmed these days, and they keep asking me what's true. so i hope that my list of things i'm almost positive about might offer some basic operating instructions to anyone who is feeling really overwhelmed or beleaguered.number one: the first and truest thing is that all truth is a paradox. life is both a precious, unfathomably beautiful gift, and it's impossible here, on the incarnational side of things. it's been a very bad match for those of us who were born extremely sensitive. it's so hard and weird that we sometimes wonder if we're being punked. it's filled simultaneously with heartbreaking sweetness and beauty, desperate poverty, floods and babies and acne and mozart, all swirled together. i don't think it's an ideal system. number two: almost everything will work again if you unplug it for a few minutes — including you.three: there is almost nothing outside of you that will help in any kind of lasting way, unless you're waiting for an organ. you can't buy, achieve or date serenity and peace of mind. this is the most horrible truth, and i so resent it. but it's an inside job, and we can't arrange peace or lasting improvement for the people we love most in the world. they have to find their own ways, their own answers. you can't run alongside your grown children with sunscreen and chapstick on their hero's journey. you have to release them. it's disrespectful not to. and if it's someone else's problem, you probably don't have the answer, anyway. our help is usually not very helpful. our help is often toxic. and help is the sunny side of control. stop helping so much. don't get your help and goodness all over everybody. this brings us to number four: everyone is screwed up, broken, clingy and scared, even the people who seem to have it most together. they are much more like you than you would believe, so try not to compare your insides to other people's outsides. it will only make you worse than you already are. also, you can't save, fix or rescue any of them or get anyone sober. what helped me get clean and sober 30 years ago was the catastrophe of my behavior and thinking. so i asked some sober friends for help, and i turned to a higher power. one acronym for god is the "gift of desperation," g-o-d, or as a sober friend put it, by the end i was deteriorating faster than i could lower my standards. so god might mean, in this case, "me running out of any more good ideas."while fixing and saving and trying to rescue is futile, radical self-care is quantum, and it radiates out from you into the atmosphere like a little fresh air. it's a huge gift to the world. when people respond by saying, "well, isn't she full of herself," just smile obliquely like mona lisa and make both of you a nice cup of tea. being full of affection for one's goofy, self-centered, cranky, annoying self is home. it's where world peace begins.number five: chocolate with 75 percent cacao is not actually a food. its best use is as a bait in snake traps or to balance the legs of wobbly chairs. it was never meant to be considered an edible.number six — writing. every writer you know writes really terrible first drafts, but they keep their butt in the chair. that's the secret of life. that's probably the main difference between you and them. they just do it. they do it by prearrangement with themselves. they do it as a debt of honor. they tell stories that come through them one day at a time, little by little. when my older brother was in fourth grade, he had a term paper on birds due the next day, and he hadn't started. so my dad sat down with him with an audubon book, paper, pencils and brads — for those of you who have gotten a little less young and remember brads — and he said to my brother, "just take it bird by bird, buddy. just read about pelicans and then write about pelicans in your own voice. and then find out about chickadees, and tell us about them in your own voice. and then geese."so the two most important things about writing are: bird by bird and really god-awful first drafts. if you don't know where to start, remember that every single thing that happened to you is yours, and you get to tell it. if people wanted you to write more warmly about them, they should've behaved better. you're going to feel like hell if you wake up someday and you never wrote the stuff that is tugging on the sleeves of your heart: your stories, memories, visions and songs — your truth, your version of things — in your own voice. that's really all you have to offer us, and that's also why you were born.seven: publication and temporary creative successes are something you have to recover from. they kill as many people as not. they will hurt, damage and change you in ways you cannot imagine. the most degraded and evil people i've ever known are male writers who've had huge best sellers. and yet, returning to number one, that all truth is paradox, it's also a miracle to get your work published, to get your stories read and heard. just try to bust yourself gently of the fantasy that publication will heal you, that it will fill the swiss-cheesy holes inside of you. it can't. it won't. but writing can. so can singing in a choir or a bluegrass band. so can painting community murals or birding or fostering old dogs that no one else will.number eight: families. families are hard, hard, hard, no matter how cherished and astonishing they may also be. again, see number one. at family gatherings where you suddenly feel homicidal or suicidal — remember that in all cases, it's a miracle that any of us, specifically, were conceived and born. earth is forgiveness school. it begins with forgiving yourself, and then you might as well start at the dinner table. that way, you can do this work in comfortable pants. when william blake said that we are here to learn to endure the beams of love, he knew that your family would be an intimate part of this, even as you want to run screaming for your cute little life. but i promise you are up to it. you can do it, cinderella, you can do it, and you will be amazed.nine: food. try to do a little better. i think you know what i mean. number 10 — grace. grace is spiritual wd-40, or water wings. the mystery of grace is that god loves henry kissinger and vladimir putin and me exactly as much as he or she loves your new grandchild. go figure. the movement of grace is what changes us, heals us and heals our world. to summon grace, say, "help," and then buckle up. grace finds you exactly where you are, but it doesn't leave you where it found you. and grace won't look like casper the friendly ghost, regrettably. but the phone will ring or the mail will come and then against all odds, you'll get your sense of humor about yourself back. laughter really is carbonated holiness. it helps us breathe again and again and gives us back to ourselves, and this gives us faith in life and each other. and remember — grace always bats last.eleven: god just means goodness. it's really not all that scary. it means the divine or a loving, animating intelligence, or, as we learned from the great "deteriorata," "the cosmic muffin." a good name for god is: "not me." emerson said that the happiest person on earth is the one who learns from nature the lessons of worship. so go outside a lot and look up. my pastor said you can trap bees on the bottom of mason jars without lids because they don't look up, so they just walk around bitterly bumping into the glass walls. go outside. look up. secret of life.and finally: death. number 12. wow and yikes. it's so hard to bear when the few people you cannot live without die. you'll never get over these losses, and no matter what the culture says, you're not supposed to. we christians like to think of death as a major change of address, but in any case, the person will live again fully in your heart if you don't seal it off. like leonard cohen said, "there are cracks in everything, and that's how the light gets in." and that's how we feel our people again fully alive.also, the people will make you laugh out loud at the most inconvenient times, and that's the great good news. but their absence will also be a lifelong nightmare of homesickness for you. grief and friends, time and tears will heal you to some extent. tears will bathe and baptize and hydrate and moisturize you and the ground on which you walk.do you know the first thing that god says to moses? he says, "take off your shoes." because this is holy ground, all evidence to the contrary. it's hard to believe, but it's the truest thing i know. when you're a little bit older, like my tiny personal self, you realize that death is as sacred as birth. and don't worry — get on with your life. almost every single death is easy and gentle with the very best people surrounding you for as long as you need. you won't be alone. they'll help you cross over to whatever awaits us. as ram dass said, "when all is said and done, we're really just all walking each other home."i think that's it, but if i think of anything else, i'll let you know.thank you. thank you. i was very surprised to be asked to come, because it is not my realm, technology or design or entertainment. i mean, my realm is sort of faith and writing and kind of lurching along together. and i was surprised, but they said i could give a talk, and i said i'd love to.(video) if you don't know where to start, remember that every single thing that happened to you is yours and you get to tell it.anne lamott: people are very frightened and feel really doomed in america these days, and i just wanted to help people get their sense of humor about it and to realize how much isn't a problem. if you take an action, take a really healthy or loving or friendly action, you'll have loving and friendly feelings.<title = "Why you should define your fears instead of your goals">
<tags = "['choice', 'fear', 'goal-setting', 'humanity', 'life', 'personal growth', 'success', 'work', 'work-life balance']">
<occupation = "Investor, human guinea pig, author">
so, this happy pic of me was taken in 1999. i was a senior in college, and it was right after a dance practice. i was really, really happy. and i remember exactly where i was about a week and a half later. i was sitting in the back of my used minivan in a campus parking lot, when i decided i was going to commit suicide. i went from deciding to full-blown planning very quickly. and i came this close to the edge of the precipice. it's the closest i've ever come. and the only reason i took my finger off the trigger was thanks to a few lucky coincidences. and after the fact, that's what scared me the most: the element of chance.so i became very methodical about testing different ways that i could manage my ups and downs, which has proven to be a good investment. (laughs) many normal people might have, say, six to 10 major depressive episodes in their lives. i have bipolar depression. it runs in my family. i've had 50-plus at this point, and i've learned a lot. i've had a lot of at-bats, many rounds in the ring with darkness, taking good notes. so i thought rather than get up and give any type of recipe for success or highlight reel, i would share my recipe for avoiding self-destruction, and certainly self-paralysis.and the tool i've found which has proven to be the most reliable safety net for emotional free fall is actually the same tool that has helped me to make my best business decisions. but that is secondary. and it is ... stoicism. that sounds boring. you might think of spock, or it might conjure and image like this — a cow standing in the rain. it's not sad. it's not particularly happy. it's just an impassive creature taking whatever life sends its way.you might not think of the ultimate competitor, say, bill belichick, head coach of the new england patriots, who has the all-time nfl record for super bowl titles. and stoicism has spread like wildfire in the top of the nfl ranks as a means of mental toughness training in the last few years. you might not think of the founding fathers — thomas jefferson, john adams, george washington to name but three students of stoicism. george washington actually had a play about a stoic — this was "cato, a tragedy" — performed for his troops at valley forge to keep them motivated.so why would people of action focus so much on an ancient philosophy? this seems very academic. i would encourage you to think about stoicism a little bit differently, as an operating system for thriving in high-stress environments, for making better decisions. and it all started here, kind of, on a porch.so around 300 bc in athens, someone named zeno of citium taught many lectures walking around a painted porch, a "stoa." that later became "stoicism." and in the greco-roman world, people used stoicism as a comprehensive system for doing many, many things. but for our purposes, chief among them was training yourself to separate what you can control from what you cannot control, and then doing exercises to focus exclusively on the former. this decreases emotional reactivity, which can be a superpower.conversely, let's say you're a quarterback. you miss a pass. you get furious with yourself. that could cost you a game. if you're a ceo, and you fly off the handle at a very valued employee because of a minor infraction, that could cost you the employee. if you're a college student who, say, is in a downward spiral, and you feel helpless and hopeless, unabated, that could cost you your life. so the stakes are very, very high.and there are many tools in the toolkit to get you there. i'm going to focus on one that completely changed my life in 2004. it found me then because of two things: a very close friend, young guy, my age, died of pancreatic cancer unexpectedly, and then my girlfriend, who i thought i was going to marry, walked out. she'd had enough, and she didn't give me a dear john letter, but she did give me this, a dear john plaque. i'm not making this up. i've kept it. "business hours are over at five o'clock." she gave this to me to put on my desk for personal health, because at the time, i was working on my first real business. i had no idea what i was doing. i was working 14-plus hour days, seven days a week. i was using stimulants to get going. i was using depressants to wind down and go to sleep. it was a disaster. i felt completely trapped. i bought a book on simplicity to try to find answers.and i did find a quote that made a big difference in my life, which was, "we suffer more often in imagination than in reality," by seneca the younger, who was a famous stoic writer. that took me to his letters, which took me to the exercise, "premeditatio malorum," which means the pre-meditation of evils. in simple terms, this is visualizing the worst-case scenarios, in detail, that you fear, preventing you from taking action, so that you can take action to overcome that paralysis. my problem was monkey mind — super loud, very incessant. just thinking my way through problems doesn't work. i needed to capture my thoughts on paper. so i created a written exercise that i called "fear-setting," like goal-setting, for myself. it consists of three pages. super simple.the first page is right here. "what if i ...?" this is whatever you fear, whatever is causing you anxiety, whatever you're putting off. it could be asking someone out, ending a relationship, asking for a promotion, quitting a job, starting a company. it could be anything. for me, it was taking my first vacation in four years and stepping away from my business for a month to go to london, where i could stay in a friend's room for free, to either remove myself as a bottleneck in the business or shut it down.in the first column, "define," you're writing down all of the worst things you can imagine happening if you take that step. you want 10 to 20. i won't go through all of them, but i'll give you two examples. one was, i'll go to london, it'll be rainy, i'll get depressed, the whole thing will be a huge waste of time. number two, i'll miss a letter from the irs, and i'll get audited or raided or shut down or some such.and then you go to the "prevent" column. in that column, you write down the answer to: what could i do to prevent each of these bullets from happening, or, at the very least, decrease the likelihood even a little bit? so for getting depressed in london, i could take a portable blue light with me and use it for 15 minutes in the morning. i knew that helped stave off depressive episodes. for the irs bit, i could change the mailing address on file with the irs so the paperwork would go to my accountant instead of to my ups address. easy-peasy.then we go to "repair." so if the worst-case scenarios happen, what could you do to repair the damage even a little bit, or who could you ask for help? so in the first case, london, well, i could fork over some money, fly to spain, get some sun — undo the damage, if i got into a funk. in the case of missing a letter from the irs, i could call a friend who is a lawyer or ask, say, a professor of law what they would recommend, who i should talk to, how had people handled this in the past. so one question to keep in mind as you're doing this first page is: has anyone else in the history of time less intelligent or less driven figured this out? chances are, the answer is "yes." the second page is simple: what might be the benefits of an attempt or a partial success? you can see we're playing up the fears and really taking a conservative look at the upside. so if you attempted whatever you're considering, might you build confidence, develop skills, emotionally, financially, otherwise? what might be the benefits of, say, a base hit? spend 10 to 15 minutes on this.page three. this might be the most important, so don't skip it: "the cost of inaction." humans are very good at considering what might go wrong if we try something new, say, ask for a raise. what we don't often consider is the atrocious cost of the status quo — not changing anything. so you should ask yourself, if i avoid this action or decision and actions and decisions like it, what might my life look like in, say, six months, 12 months, three years? any further out, it starts to seem intangible. and really get detailed — again, emotionally, financially, physically, whatever.and when i did this, it painted a terrifying picture. i was self-medicating, my business was going to implode at any moment at all times, if i didn't step away. my relationships were fraying or failing. and i realized that inaction was no longer an option for me.those are the three pages. that's it. that's fear-setting. and after this, i realized that on a scale of one to 10, one being minimal impact, 10 being maximal impact, if i took the trip, i was risking a one to three of temporary and reversible pain for an eight to 10 of positive, life-changing impact that could be a semi-permanent. so i took the trip. none of the disasters came to pass. there were some hiccups, sure. i was able to extricate myself from the business. i ended up extending that trip for a year and a half around the world, and that became the basis for my first book, that leads me here today.and i can trace all of my biggest wins and all of my biggest disasters averted back to doing fear-setting at least once a quarter. it's not a panacea. you'll find that some of your fears are very well-founded. but you shouldn't conclude that without first putting them under a microscope. and it doesn't make all the hard times, the hard choices, easy, but it can make a lot of them easier.i'd like to close with a profile of one of my favorite modern-day stoics. this is jerzy gregorek. he is a four-time world champion in olympic weightlifting, political refugee, published poet, 62 years old. he can still kick my ass and probably most asses in this room. he's an impressive guy.i spent a lot of time on his stoa, his porch, asking life and training advice. he was part of the solidarity in poland, which was a nonviolent movement for social change that was violently suppressed by the government. he lost his career as a firefighter. then his mentor, a priest, was kidnapped, tortured, killed and thrown into a river. he was then threatened. he and his wife had to flee poland, bounce from country to country until they landed in the us with next to nothing, sleeping on floors.he now lives in woodside, california, in a very nice place, and of the 10,000-plus people i've met in my life, i would put him in the top 10, in terms of success and happiness. and there's a punchline coming, so pay attention. i sent him a text a few weeks ago, asking him: had he ever read any stoic philosophy? and he replied with two pages of text. this is very unlike him. he is a terse dude. and not only was he familiar with stoicism, but he pointed out, for all of his most important decisions, his inflection points, when he stood up for his principles and ethics, how he had used stoicism and something akin to fear-setting, which blew my mind.and he closed with two things. number one: he couldn't imagine any life more beautiful than that of a stoic. and the last was his mantra, which he applies to everything, and you can apply to everything:"easy choices, hard life. hard choices, easy life."the hard choices — what we most fear doing, asking, saying — these are very often exactly what we most need to do. and the biggest challenges and problems we face will never be solved with comfortable conversations, whether it's in your own head or with other people.so i encourage you to ask yourselves: where in your lives right now might defining your fears be more important than defining your goals? keeping in mind all the while, the words of seneca: "we suffer more often in imagination than in reality."thank you very much. <title = "How I built a jet suit">
<tags = "['adventure', 'collaboration', 'demo', 'design', 'engineering', 'entrepreneur', 'flight', 'future', 'innovation', 'invention', 'motivation', 'potential', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Founder, Gravity">
michael browning: engineer, innovator — inventor, really — and inspiring father. he had a passion for flight, as you can kind of sense from that rather dubious 1970s office-leaving present. and some 40 years after that was created, a small group of us got together to have a go, a run at the whole challenge of flight that inspired people for years, and do it in a very different kind of way. and that's the journey i'd like to share with you now.the starting hypothesis was one of the human mind and body, which, as you've seen for the last few days here, is an amazing construct. what if you augmented that wonderful machine with just the right technology? if you approach flight in that kind of real way, where could you get to?so my training partner here back in london, denton, is doing a much better job of that kind of stuff than me. guess what? it's london. the idea was that you augment that. and so, how do you augment that? well, we bought one of these.this is a micro gas turbine. this was ground zero, so that little piece of kit proved really quite impressive, so we got two in a field. the real hero here, by the way, is, right in the background, there's a lady tending some vegetables, who does a brilliant job of trying to ignore us for a while — i think the only thing less happy is the grass, that we did probably damage quite badly.you get an idea of the thrust here, when i try to hold them horizontally and somewhat fail. that's around 50 kilos of thrust there. we were quite impressed with that. we thought we were getting somewhere.so there's only one sensible way to go from there: you get four. i have to say, i still like watching these back.so then we thought well, let's try and spread the load a bit. the legs are designed to take the load, so why don't we spread it out a bit? that bit was good. the harness — a nice idea but it didn't really work, as you'll see now. this whole journey was very much about trying things — yeah, it really didn't work, did it?trying things and learning by failing at them most of the time. and that included failing by falling over. if you notice, we've got five engines here — not to be put off by the fact one was in maintenance, still had a go. and then i pinched a fuel line. so again, good learning. we learned not to do that again.this was a blind alley. this was three on each arm — that was ridiculous. that was 70 kilos on each arm. again, struck that one off. but we were starting to make some really quite convincing progress, just enough to make you believe that maybe — maybe we could get there. you can see, look — tantalizing. the model of one on each leg and two on each arm, on paper, that was enough thrust. and then we did what i'm about to show you now, and i still love watching this one. this was our first six-second, reasonably coherent flight. that was the point where this endeavor went from: "i'm really not sure this is going to work," to: "oh my god, it does work!" from there on we then refined it, but we carried on falling over a lot. falling over, like i say, is definitely the best way to learn. after a while, we starting really refining the layout of all of this. and you'll see, that's stability and control — there's no wires there or anything — that's a combination of us refining the technology, including with a tupperware box on the back for the electronics and actually learning the balance and control.i'm now going to save your ears for the next short piece and talk over it. after a while, the jet engine noise is a bit annoying. this is only a few weeks ago. you can see the stability and control is really quite nice, and i'd like to think this somewhat validates that starting hypothesis, that the human mind and body, if properly augmented in that way, can achieve some pretty cool stuff. i mean, like i said: i'm not thinking about where i'm moving my arms at that stage. i'm looking at the objective of where i want to get to, and a bit like riding a bike, my arms are just doing their thing. it's a very strange experience.so where is all this headed?i'll talk over this landing — i think i land in this one.well, i don't think anybody's going to go down to walmart or take the kids to school in any of this stuff for a while, but the team at gravity are building some awesome technology that's going to make this look like child's play. we're working on some things that will seek to bring this unusual experience of flight to a wider audience, beyond the events and displays we're doing. we're even starting to look for pilots two and three, if there's any volunteers.i've got this vision. it sounds audacious, but let's just stick it out there, that one day maybe we can rise up above a beach, fly up and down the coastline of it, rise up a bit higher, with some of the safety kit we're working on to make this achievable. then over the horizon comes a hercules with the ramp down. as it comes past, you start picking up speed and see if we can intercept — from the rear, not the front, that would be a mistake — and then try and land in the back. and as i say, that's a little way off at the moment.but this is also, if i take a big step back from this, this is also a very personal journey for me. back to that lovely photo, or photo in a picture. sadly, my father took his own life when i was 15, and left an awful lot of unfulfilled ambition. he was a wonderful inventor, a maverick creator. and i'd just like to think, if it was possible, if he was looking down, he would be — he'd certainly be smiling at some of the things we've done here, i think. so, it's a tribute to him.thank you very much. (voice-over) richard browning: i'm probably more nervous about doing the demo after this. i've got a lot of things to get done today. worst-case scenario, we don't get a clean start.or we get an unplanned failure while i'm actually flying around. this is why we keep it very low, so the worst is i just look like an idiot and fall on my rear, as i said. so you can all enjoy that if that happens.(music)(jet engine accelerates)(cheers)<title = "When I die, recompose me">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'architecture', 'bacteria', 'biosphere', 'death', 'ecology', 'environment', 'green', 'life', 'microbes', 'nature', 'sustainability']">
<occupation = "Inventor, designer, death care advocate">
my name is katrina spade, and i grew up in a medical family where it was fairly normal to talk about death and dying at the dinner table. but i didn't go into medicine like so many of my family members. instead, i went to architecture school to learn how to design. and while i was there, i began to be curious about what would happen to my physical body after i died. what would my nearest and dearest do with me?so if the existence and the fact of your own mortality doesn't get you down, the state of our current funerary practices will. today, almost 50 percent of americans choose conventional burial. conventional burial begins with embalming, where funeral staff drain bodily fluid and replace it with a mixture designed to preserve the corpse and give it a lifelike glow. then, as you know, bodies are buried in a casket in a concrete-lined grave in a cemetery. all told, in us cemeteries, we bury enough metal to build a golden gate bridge, enough wood to build 1,800 single family homes, and enough formaldehyde-laden embalming fluid to fill eight olympic-size swimming pools.in addition, cemeteries all over the world are reaching capacity. turns out, it doesn't really make good business sense to sell someone a piece of land for eternity. whose idea was that?in some places, you can't buy a plot no matter how much money you have. as a result, cremation rates have risen fast. in 1950, if you suggested your grandmother be incinerated after she died, you'd probably be kicked from the family deathbed. but today, almost half of americans choose cremation, citing simpler, cheaper and more ecological as reasons. i used to think that cremation was a sustainable form of disposition, but just think about it for a second. cremation destroys the potential we have to give back to the earth after we've died. it uses an energy-intensive process to turn bodies into ash, polluting the air and contributing to climate change. all told, cremations in the us emit a staggering 600 million pounds of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually. the truly awful truth is that the very last thing that most of us will do on this earth is poison it.it's like we've created, accepted and death-denied our way into a status quo that puts as much distance between ourselves and nature as is humanly possible. our modern funerary practices are designed to stave off the natural processes that happen to a body after death. in other words, they're meant to prevent us from decomposing. but the truth is that nature is really, really good at death. we've all seen it. when organic material dies in nature, microbes and bacteria break it down into nutrient-rich soil, completing the life cycle. in nature, death creates life.back in architecture school, i was thinking about all this, and i set out on a plan to redesign death care. could i create a system that was beneficial to the earth and that used nature as a guide rather than something to be feared? something that was gentle to the planet? that planet, after all, supports our living bodies our whole lives.and while i was mulling this all over over the drawing board, the phone rang. it was my friend kate. she was like, "hey, have you heard about the farmers who are composting whole cows?" and i was like, "mmmm." turns out that farmers in agricultural institutions have been practicing something called livestock mortality composting for decades. mortality composting is where you take an animal high in nitrogen and cover it with co-composting materials that are high in carbon. it's an aerobic process, so it requires oxygen, and it requires plenty of moisture as well. in the most basic setup, a cow is covered with a few feet of wood chips, which are high in carbon, and left outside for nature, for breezes to provide oxygen and rain to provide moisture. in about nine months, all that remains is a nutrient-rich compost. the flesh has been decomposed entirely, as have the bones. i know. so i would definitely call myself a decomposition nerd, but i am far, far from a scientist, and one way you can tell this is true is that i have often called the process of composting "magic." so basically, all we humans need to do is create the right environment for nature to do its job. it's like the opposite of antibacterial soap. instead of fighting them, we welcome microbes and bacteria in with open arms. these tiny, amazing creatures break down molecules into smaller molecules and atoms, which are then incorporated into new molecules. in other words, that cow is transformed. it's no longer a cow. it's been cycled back into nature. see? magic.you can probably imagine the light bulb that went off in my head after i received that phone call. i began designing a system based on the principles of livestock mortality composting that would take human beings and transform them into soil.fast-forward five years and the project has grown in ways i truly never could have imagined. we've created a scalable, replicable non-profit urban model based on the science of livestock mortality composting that turns human beings into soil. we've partnered and collaborated with experts in soil science, decomposition, alternative death care, law and architecture. we've raised funds from foundations and individuals in order to design a prototype of this system, and we've heard from tens of thousands of people all over the world who want this option to be available. ok. in the next few years, it's our goal to build the first full-scale human composting facility right in the city of seattle. imagine it, part public park, part funeral home, part memorial to the people we love, a place where we can reconnect with the cycles of nature and treat bodies with gentleness and respect.the infrastructure is simple. inside a vertical core, bodies and wood chips undergo accelerated natural decomposition, or composting, and are transformed into soil. when someone dies, their body is taken to a human composting facility. after wrapping the deceased in a simple shroud, friends and family carry the body to the top of the core, which contains the natural decomposition system. during a laying in ceremony, they gently place the body into the core and cover it with wood chips. this begins the gentle transformation from human to soil. over the next few weeks, the body decomposes naturally. microbes and bacteria break down carbon, then protein, to create a new substance, a rich, earthy soil. this soil can then be used to grow new life. eventually, you could be a lemon tree. yeah, thank you. who's thinking about lemon meringue pie right now? a lemon drop? something stronger?so in addition to housing the core, these buildings will function to support the grieving by providing space for memorial services and end-of-life planning. the potential for repurposing is huge. old churches and industrial warehouses can be converted into places where we create soil and honor life.we want to bring back the aspect of ritual that's been diluted over the past hundred years as cremation rates have risen and religious affiliation has declined. our seattle facility will function as a model for these places all over the world. we've heard from communities in south africa, australia, the uk, canada and beyond. we're creating a design toolkit that will help others design and build facilities that will contain technical specifications and regulatory best practices. we want to help individuals, organizations, and down the road, municipalities design and build facilities in their own cities. the idea is that every one of these places should look and feel completely different with the same system inside. they're really meant to be designed for the neighborhood in which they reside and the community which they serve.the other idea is for supportive staff to be on hand to help families with the care and preparation of loved ones' bodies. we're banishing practices that bewilder and disempower and creating a system that is beautiful and meaningful and transparent. we believe that access to ecological death care is a human right.ok, so you know the old saying, if you can compost a cow, you can compost a human? turns out, it's true. since 2014, we've been running a pilot project in the hills of north carolina with the forensic anthropology department at western carolina university. six donor bodies have been covered in wood chips, oxygen provided by breezes, microbes and bacteria doing their jobs. this pilot program has allowed us to demonstrate that it's possible to harness the incredible power of natural decomposition to turn human bodies into soil, and we're working with other universities as well. soil scientists at washington state university, the grad students, anyway, are working to compost teeth with amalgam fillings so that we can understand what happens to the mercury therein. next up, we'll be beginning experiments to determine what happens to chemo drugs and pharmaceuticals during the composting process, and whether additional remediation will be needed.by the way, composting creates a great deal of heat, especially this particular type of composting. one week after we began composting our fifth donor body, the temperature inside that mound of wood chips reached 158 degrees fahrenheit. imagine harnessing that heat to create energy or comfort the grieving on a cold day.the death care revolution has begun. it's an exciting time to be alive.thank you. <title = "Science didn't understand my kids' rare disease until I decided to study it">
<tags = "['Bioethics', 'DNA', 'TEDMED', 'biology', 'children', 'collaboration', 'disease', 'epidemiology', 'genetics', 'health', 'humanity', 'illness', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'parenting', 'science']">
<occupation = "Citizen biomedical researcher">
the best christmas my children ever had was also the worst christmas my husband and i ever had. elizabeth, age seven, and her brother, ian, age five, couldn't imagine why they were getting everything they wanted for christmas. the reason santa was so generous was because of something my husband pat and i knew and the kids couldn't comprehend. something that we had just learned, and it terrified us.this was 1994 and the story actually starts a few years earlier. for a couple of years i had noticed a rash on the sides of elizabeth's neck that looked like prickly heat. for those same years, my father and brother both died of cancer, and i was probably overanxious about illness. the doctors assured us there was nothing wrong and i shouldn't worry, but i wasn't so sure. and so without a referral, and paying out-of-pocket, i took elizabeth to a dermatologist. she was probably just allergic to something, but why did it appear just on the sides of her neck, this rash?so it's two days before christmas, 1994, and the dermatologist takes a quick look at her neck and says, "she has pseudoxanthoma elasticum." and then he shuts off the lights and looks in her eyes. it turns out, by chance, this dermatologist also trained in ophthalmology. our lucky day. i am sick to my stomach. "oma?" oma's like melanoma, lymphoma — cancer. "why are you looking in her eyes for a skin rash?" i scream and make no sound.so there it is. elizabeth has pseudoxanthoma elasticum, pxe for short. questions mix with fear and erupt like bile in my throat. why are you looking in her eyes? what do you know about this? how do you know for sure? what is the prognosis? my training in pastoral counseling did not prepare me for this.dr. bercovitch tells us everything he knows about pxe. it's a rare genetic disorder, it's systemic, it's a slowly progressing, premature aging disease. it causes loose wrinkly skin in the flexor areas. it causes legal blindness, like macular degeneration, and a host of cardiovascular problems. little is known about this disease, and some people die in their 30s, say some of the reports at the time. he then just glances at our son and says, "he has it, too." we want to flee back to the land of normal.two days after christmas, researchers come from a university in boston, and they take blood from us and our children for a research project focused on finding the gene. a few days later, researchers come from a medical center in new york and say they want blood, too. "these are children. they're five and seven years old. don't make them face the needle twice. go and get your share from the other researchers." they laugh, incredulous. "share?" it is then that we learn that there is little sharing in biomedical research.this moment, more than any other, lit a fire beneath my husband pat and me. pat and i went to a medical school library and we copied every article we could find on pxe. we didn't understand a thing. we bought medical dictionaries and scientific textbooks and read everything we could get our hands on. and though we still didn't understand, we could see patterns, and it became quickly apparent within a month that there was no systematic effort to understand pxe.in addition, the lack of sharing that we experienced was pervasive. researchers competed with each other because the ecosystem was designed to reward competition rather than to alleviate suffering. we realized that we would have to do work on this condition ourselves to find solutions for ourselves and others like us. but we faced two major barriers. the first one: pat and i have no science background. at the time, he's the manager of a construction company, and i'm a former college chaplain stay-at-home mom — hardly the backgrounds to take the research world by storm. the second barrier: researchers don't share. people told us you can't herd cats. well, yes you can if you move their food. dna and clinical data is the food. so we would collect blood and medical histories, and require that all scientists using these resources would share results with each other and with the people who donated.well before the internet was in common use, pat and i established pxe international, a nonprofit dedicated to initiating research and conducting it on pxe and also supporting individuals with the disease. using traditional media, we garnered around 100-150 people around the world who we asked, would you give us your blood, your tissue, your medical histories, your medical records? and we brought all of that together.we quickly learned that this shared resource was not going to be enough. and so we decided we had to do hardcore bench science — hardcore research. so we borrowed bench space at a lab at harvard. a wonderful neighbor came a couple times a week and sat with the kids from 8pm to 2am while pat and i extracted dna, ran and scored gels and searched for the gene. generous postdocs tutored us as we went along. within a few years, we found the gene. we patented it so that it would be freely available. we created a diagnostic test. we put together a research consortium. we held research meetings and opened a center of excellence. we found more than 4,000 people around the world who had pxe, and held patient meetings and did clinical trials and studies.through all this, we lived with fear. fear of the disease breathing down our neck while the clock ticked. fear of researchers, so well credentialed and positioned in a world made for them. fear that we were making the wrong choices. fear that the naysayers were right and the cats would simply find a new food. but greater than all these fears was our drive to make a difference for our kids and for all those we had met along the way. and very quickly, we also realized what we were doing for one disease, we should do for all diseases.we joined with, and i eventually led, genetic alliance — a network of health advocacy, patient advocacy, research and health organizations. we built scalable and extensible resources, like biobanks and registries and directories of support for all diseases. and as i learned about all those diseases and all those disease communities, i realized that there were two secrets in health care that were impacting me greatly. the first: there are no ready answers for people like my kids or all the people i was working with, whether common or rare conditions. and the second secret: the answers lie in all of us together, donating our data, our biological samples and ultimately ourselves.there is a small groundswell of individuals who are working to change this. citizen scientists, activists, hacks who are using crowdsourcing, do-it-yourself science are changing the game. even president obama and vice president biden are evangelists for the idea that people should be partners in research. this is a founding principle of our organization. sure, it's really hard to discover and develop interventions and therapies. the science is hard, the regulatory regime is difficult. there are a lot of stakeholders with lots of interests and misaligned incentives like publishing, promotion and tenure. i don't fault scientists for following this path, but i challenge them and us to do this differently. to recognize that people are at the center.genetic alliance has experimented in what it will take to transform these crusty systems. our goal is to work without boundaries. that sounds abstract, but for us it's quite practical. when we're frustrated that entities won't share data — data that comes from people who gave their energy, their time, their blood and even their tears — we need to stop and ask, "how is it true that we could share, but we aren't?" we're part of this system, too. how do we make it so that people can share ideas freely? so that people can take risks and move closer to one another?this leads to a dissolving of us versus them, not only for organizations but also for individuals. if i'm going to ask organizations or individuals to strive for these standards, then i too need to explore my own being and my practices. if i'm going to ask clinicians and researchers and administrators to take risks, then i, sharon, need to take risks as well. i need to face my personal fears. my fear of not having enough impact. my fear of not leading well. my fear of not being enough.just before they entered their teens, our kids stopped us in our tracks and said, "you have to stop worrying about making a difference, making an impact, and instead, like us, learn to live with disease rather than fight it." i have to ask, where does all my fear come from? the kids' declaration shines a spotlight on that fear. it arises from a bedrock of love. i love elizabeth and ian. i love people with pxe. i love people with any disease. i love people. some of my colleagues have discovered that it is not death we fear, it is the enormity of our loving. this expansive love opens me to great pain as i face loss.as i discover my fear, i discover that i and all those around me have boundless capacity for love. and i also discover as i move into this fear, that i can learn many new things and find paths to things like practical solutions as well as the core of healing and health.i don't fear fear the way i used to. in fact lately, with enormous support from all my fellow journeyers, i notice that it's not a warning the way it used to be. i notice that instead, it's an invitation to go forward because in it lies love and the path to greater love. if i turn with gentle curiosity toward that fear, i find enormous wealth within myself and others and the ability to step into challenges that i never thought i could.my kids are ahead of me on that path still. at ages 29 and 27, they declare they are happy and healthy despite having manifestations of pxe in their skin and eyes and arteries. and so i invite you, us, we, to turn toward our fear; to embrace the things that scare us and find the love at the center. we'll not only find ourselves there but we'll also be able to step into the shoes of those we fear and those who fear us. if we breathe into that fear and are vulnerable with the systems and people who challenge us, our power as changemakers grows exponentially. and when we realize that working on our inner life is working on our outer life and outer work is inner work, we get down to what is real and shit gets done. there is no limit to what we can accomplish together.thank you. <title = ""Awoo"">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'singer']">
<occupation = "Band">
(music)sophie hawley-weld: ok, you don't have to stand up, but ... we can see you really clearly — so you have to dance with us. and we have this, like, choreographed dance thing that we're about to do —betta lemme: really easy.shw: and we're going to flick our wrists like this, and you're going to do it with us. and you can also stand up.(music)(sings) i know i did not raise a wrist(both sing) i know i did not capture itit came, it came, it went, it wentit conquered quicki was there and then i quitawoo!i know i did not raise a wristi know i did not capture itit came, it came, it went, it wentit conquered quicki was there and then i quitawoo!bl: (speaks) there you go!(music)shw: we have another one coming up. it's a little finger-pointing dance.(music)the people sitting down, i want to see your fingers pointing. yeah!(sings) i know i did not raise a wrist(both sing) i know i did not capture it it came, it came, it went, it wentit conquered quicki was there and then i quitaaaa ... awoo!(music)(clapping to the beat)(music)aaaa ...shw: (speaks) alright, hand flick.(both sing) i know i did not raise a wristi know i did not capture itit came, it came, it went, it wentit conquered quicki was there and then i quiti know i did not raise a wristi know i did not capture itit came, it came, it went, it wentit conquered quick i was there and then i quit(music)tucker halpern: you guys are way more fun than i thought you'd be. (music)awoo! shw: thank you so much. <title = "Doesn't everyone deserve a chance at a good life?">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Internet', 'big problems', 'business', 'capitalism', 'children', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'economics', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'health', 'history', 'humanity', 'immigration', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'investment', 'politics', 'potential', 'refugees', 'resources', 'social change', 'social media', 'society']">
<occupation = "President, World Bank Group">
i just want to share with you what i have been experiencing over the last five years in having the great privilege of traveling to many of the poorest countries in the world.this scene is one i see all the time everywhere, and these young children are looking at a smartphone, and the smartphone is having a huge impact in even the poorest countries. i said to my team, you know, what i see is a rise in aspirations all over the world. in fact, it seems to me that there's a convergence of aspirations. and i asked a team of economists to actually look into this. is this true? are aspirations converging all around the world? so they looked at things like gallup polls about satisfaction in life and what they learned was that if you have access to the internet, your satisfaction goes up. but another thing happens that's very important: your reference income, the income to which you compare your own, also goes up. now, if the reference income of a nation, for example, goes up 10 percent by comparing themselves to the outside, then on average, people's own incomes have to go up at least five percent to maintain the same level of satisfaction. but when you get down into the lower percentiles of income, your income has to go up much more if the reference income goes up 10 percent, something like 20 percent. and so with this rise of aspirations, the fundamental question is: are we going to have a situation where aspirations are linked to opportunity and you get dynamism and economic growth, like that which happened in the country i was born in, in korea? or are aspirations going to meet frustration?this is a real concern, because between 2012 and 2015, terrorism incidents increased by 74 percent. the number of deaths from terrorism went up 150 percent. right now, two billion people live in conditions of fragility, conflict, violence, and by 2030, more than 60 percent of the world's poor will live in these situations of fragility, conflict and violence. and so what do we do about meeting these aspirations? are there new ways of thinking about how we can rise to meet these aspirations? because if we don't, i'm extremely worried. aspirations are rising as never before because of access to the internet. everyone knows how everyone else lives. has our ability to meet those aspirations risen as well?and just to get at the details of this, i want to share with you my own personal story. this is not my mother, but during the korean war, my mother literally took her own sister, her younger sister, on her back, and walked at least part of the way to escape seoul during the korean war. now, through a series of miracles, my mother and father both got scholarships to go to new york city. they actually met in new york city and got married in new york city. my father, too, was a refugee. at the age of 19, he left his family in the northern part of the country, escaped through the border and never saw his family again. now, when they were married and living in new york, my father was a waiter at patricia murphy's restaurant. their aspirations went up. they understood what it was like to live in a place like new york city in the 1950s.well, my brother was born and they came back to korea, and we had what i remember as kind of an idyllic life, but what was happening in korea at that time was the country was one of the poorest in the world and there was political upheaval. there were demonstrations just down the street from our house all the time, students protesting against the military government. and at the time, the aspirations of the world bank group, the organization i lead now, were extremely low for korea. their idea was that korea would find it difficult without foreign aid to provide its people with more than the bare necessities of life. so the situation is korea is in a tough position, my parents have seen what life is like in the united states. they got married there. my brother was born there. and they felt that in order to give us an opportunity to reach their aspirations for us, we had to go and come back to the united states.now, we came back. first we went to dallas. my father did his dental degree all over again. and then we ended up moving to iowa, of all places. we grew up in iowa. and in iowa, we went through the whole course. i went to high school, i went to college. and then one day, something that i'll never forget, my father picked me up after my sophomore year in college, and he was driving me home, and he said, "jim, what are your aspirations? what do you want to study? what do you want to do?" and i said, "dad," — my mother actually was a philosopher, and had filled us with ideas about protest and social justice, and i said, "dad, i'm going to study political science and philosophy, and i'm going to become part of a political movement." my father, the korean dentist, slowly pulled the car over to the side of the road — he looked back at me, and he said, "jim, you finish your medical residency, you can study anything you want." now, i've told this story to a mostly asian audience before. nobody laughs. they just shake their head. of course. so, tragically, my father died at a young age, 30 years ago at the age of 57, what happens to be how old i am right now, and when he died in the middle of my medical and graduate studies — you see, i actually got around it by doing medicine and anthropology. i studied both of them in graduate school.but then right about that time, i met these two people, ophelia dahl and paul farmer. and paul and i were in the same program. we were studying medicine and at the same time getting our phd's in anthropology. and we began to ask some pretty fundamental questions. for people who have the great privilege of studying medicine and anthropology — i had come from parents who were refugees. paul grew up literally in a bus in a swamp in florida. he liked to call himself "white trash." and so we had this opportunity and we said, what is it that we need to do? given our ridiculously elaborate educations, what is the nature of our responsibility to the world? and we decided that we needed to start an organization. it's called partners in health. and by the way, there's a movie made about that. there's a movie that was just a brilliant movie they made about it called "bending the arc." it launched at sundance this past january. jeff skoll is here. jeff is one of the ones who made it happen. and we began to think about what it would take for us to actually have our aspirations reach the level of some of the poorest communities in the world.this is my very first visit to haiti in 1988, and in 1988, we elaborated a sort of mission statement, which is we are going to make a preferential option for the poor in health. now, it took us a long time, and we were graduate students in anthropology. we were reading up one side of marx and down the other. habermas. fernand braudel. we were reading everything and we had to come to a conclusion of how are we going to structure our work? so "o for the p," we called it, a preferential option for the poor.the most important thing about a preferential option for the poor is what it's not. it's not a preferential option for your own sense of heroism. it's not a preferential option for your own idea about how to lift the poor out of poverty. it's not a preferential option for your own organization. and the hardest of all, it's not a preferential option for your poor. it's a preferential option for the poor.so what do you do? well, haiti, we started building — everyone told us, the cost-effective thing is just focus on vaccination and maybe a feeding program. but what the haitians wanted was a hospital. they wanted schools. they wanted to provide their children with the opportunities that they'd been hearing about from others, relatives, for example, who had gone to the united states. they wanted the same kinds of opportunities as my parents did. i recognized them. and so that's what we did. we built hospitals. we provided education. and we did everything we could to try to give them opportunities.now, my experience really became intense at partners in health in this community, carabayllo, in the northern slums of lima, peru. and in this community, we started out by really just going to people's homes and talking to people, and we discovered an outbreak, an epidemic of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. this is melquiades. melquiades was a patient at that time, he was about 18 years old, and he had a very difficult form of drug-resistant tuberculosis. all of the gurus in the world, the global health gurus, said it is not cost-effective to treat drug-resistant tuberculosis. it's too complicated. it's too expensive. you just can't do it. it can't be done. and in addition, they were getting angry at us, because the implication was if it could be done, we would have done it. who do you think you are? and the people that we fought with were the world health organization and probably the organization we fought with most was the world bank group.now, we did everything we could to convince melquiades to take his medicines, because it's really hard, and not once during the time of treatment did melquiades's family ever say, "hey, you know, melquiades is just not cost-effective. why don't you go on and treat somebody else?" i hadn't seen melquiades for about 10 years and when we had our annual meetings in lima, peru a couple of years ago, the filmmakers found him and here is us getting together. he has become a bit of a media star because he goes to the film openings, and he knows how to work an audience now. but as soon as we won — we did win. we won the argument. you should treat multidrug-resistant tuberculosis — we heard the same arguments in the early 2000s about hiv. all of the leading global health people in the world said it is impossible to treat hiv in poor countries. too expensive, too complicated, you can't do it. compared to drug-resistant tb treatment, it's actually easier. and we were seeing patients like this. joseph jeune. joseph jeune also never mentioned that he was not cost-effective. a few months of medicines, and this is what he looked like. we call that the lazarus effect of hiv treatment. joseline came to us looking like this. this is what she looked like a few months later. now, our argument, our battle, we thought, was with the organizations that kept saying it's not cost-effective. we were saying, no, preferential option for the poor requires us to raise our aspirations to meet those of the poor for themselves. and they said, well, that's a nice thought but it's just not cost-effective. so in the nerdy way that we have operated partners in health, we wrote a book against, basically, the world bank. it says that because the world bank has focused so much on just economic growth and said that governments have to shrink their budgets and reduce expenditures in health, education and social welfare — we thought that was fundamentally wrong. and we argued with the world bank. and then a crazy thing happened. president obama nominated me to be president of the world bank. now, when i went to do the vetting process with president obama's team, they had a copy of "dying for growth," and they had read every page. and i said, "ok, that's it, right? you guys are going to drop me?" he goes, "oh, no, no, it's ok." and i was nominated, and i walked through the door of the world bank group in july of 2012, and that statement on the wall, "our dream is a world free of poverty." a few months after that, we actually turned it into a goal: end extreme poverty by 2030, boost shared prosperity. that's what we do now at the world bank group. i feel like i have brought the preferential option for the poor to the world bank group. but this is ted, and so i want to share with you some concerns, and then make a proposal.the fourth industrial revolution, now, you guys know so much better than i do, but here's the thing that concerns me. what we hear about is job loss. you've all heard that. our own data suggest to us that two thirds of all jobs, currently existing jobs in developing countries, will be lost because of automation. now, you've got to make up for those jobs. now, one of the ways to make up for those jobs is to turn community health workers into a formal labor force. that's what we want to do. we think the numbers will work out, that as health outcomes get better and as people have formal work, we're going to be able to train them with the soft-skills training that you add to it to become workers that will have a huge impact, and that may be the one area that grows the most.but here's the other thing that bothers me: right now it seems pretty clear to me that the jobs of the future will be more digitally demanding, and there is a crisis in childhood stunting. so these are photos from charles nelson, who shared these with us from harvard medical school. and what these photos show on the one side, on the left side, is a three-month-old who has been stunted: not adequate nutrition, not adequate stimulation. and on the other side, of course, is a normal child, and the normal child has all of these neuronal connections. now, the neuronal connections are important, because that is the definition of human capital. now, we know that we can reduce these rates. we can reduce these rates of childhood stunting quickly, but if we don't, india, for example, with 38 percent childhood stunting, how are they going to compete in the economy of the future if 40 percent of their future workers cannot achieve educationally and certainly we worry about achieving economically in a way that will help the country as a whole grow.now, what are we going to do? 78 trillion dollars is the size of the global economy. 8.55 trillion dollars are sitting in negative interest rate bonds. that means that you give the german central bank your money and then you pay them to keep your money. that's a negative interest rate bond. 24.4 trillion dollars in very low-earning government bonds. and 8 trillion literally sitting in the hands of rich people under their very large mattresses. what we are trying to do is now use our own tools — and just to get nerdy for a second, we're talking about first-loss risk debt instruments, we're talking about derisking, blended finance, we're talking about political risk insurance, credit enhancement — all these things that i've now learned at the world bank group that rich people use every single day to make themselves richer, but we haven't used aggressively enough on behalf of the poor to bring this capital in. so does this work? can you actually bring private-sector players into a country and really make things work? well, we've done it a couple of times. this is zambia, scaling solar. it's a box-set solution from the world bank where we come in and we do all the things you need to attract private-sector investors. and in this case, zambia went from having a cost of electricity at 25 cents a kilowatt-hour, and by just doing simple things, doing the auction, changing some policies, we were able to bring the cost down. lowest bid, 25 cents a kilowatt-hour for zambia? the lowest bid was 4.7 cents a kilowatt-hour. it's possible. but here's my proposal for you. this is from a group called zipline, a cool company, and they literally are rocket scientists. they figured out how to use drones in rwanda. this is me launching a drone in rwanda that delivers blood anywhere in the country in less than an hour. so we save lives, this program saved lives — this program made money for zipline and this program saved huge amounts of money for rwanda. that's what we need, and we need that from all of you. i'm asking you, carve out a little bit of time in your brains to think about the technology that you work on, the companies that you start, the design that you do. think a little bit and work with us to see if we can come up with these kinds of extraordinary win-win solutions.i'm going to leave you with one final story. i was in tanzania, and i was in a classroom. this is me with a classroom of 11-year-olds. and i asked them, as i always do, "what do you want to be when you grow up?" two raised their hands and said, "i want to be president of the world bank." and just like you, my own team and their teachers laughed. but then i stopped them. i said, "look, i want to tell you a story. when i was born in south korea, this is what it looked like. this is where i came from. and when i was three years old, in preschool, i don't think that george david woods, the president of the world bank, if he had visited korea on that day and come to my classroom, that he would have thought that the future president of the world bank was sitting in that classroom. don't let anyone ever tell you that you cannot be president of the world bank."now — thank you. let me leave you with one thought. i came from a country that was the poorest in the world. i'm president of the world bank. i cannot and i will not pull up the ladder behind me. this is urgent. aspirations are going up. everywhere aspirations are going up. you folks in this room, work with us. we know that we can find those zipline-type solutions and help the poor leapfrog into a better world, but it won't happen until we work together. the future "you" — and especially for your children — the future you will depend on how much care and compassion we bring to ensuring that the future "us" provides equality of opportunity for every child in the world.thank you very much. thank you. thank you. thank you. chris anderson: you'd almost think people are surprised to hear a talk like this from the president of the world bank. it's kind of cool. i'd encourage you to even be a little more specific on your proposal. there's many investors, entrepreneurs in this room. how will you partner with them? what's your proposal?jim yong kim: can i get nerdy for just a second.ca: get nerdy. absolutely. jyk: so here's what we did. insurance companies never invest in developing country infrastructure, for example, because they can't take the risk. they're holding money for people who pay for insurance. so what we did was a swedish international development association gave us a little bit of money, we went out and raised a little bit more money, a hundred million, and we took first loss, meaning if this thing goes bad, 10 percent of the loss we'll just eat, and the rest of you will be safe. and that created a 90-percent chunk, tranche that was triple b, investment-grade, so the insurance companies invested. so for us, what we're doing is taking our public money and using it to derisk specific instruments to bring people in from the outside. so all of you who are sitting on trillions of dollars of cash, come to us. right? ca: and what you're specifically looking for are investment proposals that create employment in the developing world.jyk: absolutely. absolutely. so these will be, for example, in infrastructure that brings energy, builds roads, bridges, ports. these kinds of things are necessary to create jobs, but also what we're saying is you may think that the technology you're working on or the business that you're working on may not have applications in the developing world, but look at zipline. and that zipline thing didn't happen just because of the quality of the technology. it was because they engaged with the rwandans early and used artificial intelligence — one thing, rwanda has great broadband — but these things fly completely on their own. so we will help you do that. we will make the introductions. we will even provide financing. we will help you do that.ca: how much capital is the world bank willing to deploy to back those kinds of efforts?jyk: chris, you're always getting me to try to do something like this.ca: i'm trying to get you in trouble. jyk: so here's what we're going to do. we have 25 billion a year that we're investing in poor countries, the poorest countries. and as we invest over the next three years, 25 billion a year, we have got to think with you about how to use that money more effectively. so i can't give you a specific number. it depends on the quality of the ideas. so bring us your ideas, and i don't think that financing is going to be the problem.ca: all right, you heard it from the man himself.jim, thanks so much. jyk: thank you. thank you. <title = "Why we need to imagine different futures">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'cities', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'exploration', 'farming', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'motivation', 'pollution', 'potential', 'social change', 'society', 'technology', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Futurist, designer">
i visit the future for a living. not just one future, but many possible futures, bringing back evidences from those futures for you to experience today. like an archaeologist of the future. over the years, my many journeys have brought back things like a new species of synthetically engineered bees; a book named, "pets as protein;" a machine that makes you rich by trading your genetic data; a lamp powered by sugar; a computer for growing food.ok, so i don't actually travel to different futures — yet. but my husband jon and i spend a lot of time thinking and creating visions of different futures in our studio. we are constantly looking out for weak signals, those murmurs of future potential. then we trace those threads of potential out into the future, asking: what might it feel like to live in this future? what might we see, hear and even breathe? then we run experiments, build prototypes, make objects, bringing aspects of these futures to life, making them concrete and tangible so you can really feel the impact of those future possibilities here and now. but this work is not about predictions. it's about creating tools — tools that can help connect our present and our future selves so we become active participants in creating a future we want — a future that works for all.so how do we go about doing this? for a recent project called drone aviary, we were interested in exploring what it would mean to live with drones in our cities. drones that have the power to see things we can't, to go places we can't and to do so with increasing autonomy. but to understand the technology, getting our hands dirty was crucial. so we built several different drones in our studio. we gave them names, functions and then flew them — but not without difficulty. things came loose, gps signals glitched and drones crashed. but it was through such experimentation that we could construct a very concrete and very experiential slice of one possible future.so now, let's go to that future. let's imagine we are living in a city with drones like this one. we call it the nightwatchman. it patrols the streets, often spotted in the evenings and at night. initially, many of us were annoyed by its low, dull hum. but then, like everything else, we got used to it. now, what if you could see the world through its eyes? see how it constantly logs every resident of our neighborhood; logging the kids who play football in the no-ballgame area and marking them as statutory nuisances. and then see how it disperses this other group, who are teenagers, with the threat of an autonomously issued injunction. and then there's this giant floating disc called madison. its glaring presence is so overpowering, i can't help but stare at it. but if feels like each time i look at it, it knows a little more about me — like it keeps flashing all these brianair adverts at me, as if it knows about the holiday i'm planning. i'm not sure if i find this mildly entertaining or just entirely invasive.back to the present. in creating this future, we learned a lot. not just about how these machines work, but what it would feel like to live alongside them. whilst drones like madison and nightwatchman, in these particular forms, are not real yet, most elements of a drone future are in fact very real today. for instance, facial recognition systems are everywhere — in our phones, even in our thermostats and in cameras around our cities — keeping a record of everything we do, whether it's an advertisement we glanced at or a protest we attended. these things are here, and we often don't understand how they work, and what their consequences could be. and we see this all around us. this difficulty in even imagining how the consequences of our actions today will affect our future.last year, where i live, in the uk, there was a referendum where the people could vote for the uk to leave the eu or stay in the eu, popularly known as "brexit." and soon after the results came out, a word began to surface called "bregret" — describing people who chose to vote for brexit as a protest, but without thinking through its potential consequences. and this disconnect is evident in some of the simplest things. say you go out for a quick drink. then you decide you wouldn't mind a few more. you know you'll wake up in the morning feeling awful, but you justify it by saying, "the other me in the future will deal with that." but as we find out in the morning, that future "you" is you.when i was growing up in india in the late '70s and early '80s, there was a feeling that the future both needed to and could actually be planned. i remember my parents had to plan for some of the simplest things. when they wanted a telephone in our house, they needed to order it and then wait — wait for nearly five years before it got installed in our house. and then if they wanted to call my grandparents who lived in another city, they needed to book something called a "trunk call," and then wait again, for hours or even days. and then abruptly, the phone would ring at two in the morning, and all of us would jump out of our beds and gather round the phone, shrieking into it, discussing general well-being at two in the morning.today it can feel like things are happening too fast — so fast, that it can become really difficult for us to form an understanding of our place in history. it creates an overwhelming sense of uncertainty and anxiety, and so, we let the future just happen to us. we don't connect with that future "us." we treat our future selves as a stranger, and the future as a foreign land. it's not a foreign land; it's unfolding right in front of us, continually being shaped by our actions today. we are that future, and so i believe fighting for a future we want is more urgent and necessary than ever before.we have learned in our work that one of the most powerful means of effecting change is when people can directly, tangibly and emotionally experience some of the future consequences of their actions today. earlier this year, the government of the united arab emirates invited us to help them shape their country's energy strategy all the way up to 2050. based on the government's econometric data, we created this large city model, and visualized many possible futures on it. as i was excitably taking a group of government officials and members of energy companies through one sustainable future on our model, one of the participants told me, "i cannot imagine that in the future people will stop driving cars and start using public transport." and then he said, "there's no way i can tell my own son to stop driving his car."but we were prepared for this reaction. working with scientists in a chemistry lab in my home city in india, we had created approximate samples of what the air would be like in 2030 if our behavior stays the same. and so, i walked the group over to this object that emits vapor from those air samples. just one whiff of the noxious polluted air from 2030 brought home the point that no amount of data can. this is not the future you would want your children to inherit. the next day, the government made a big announcement. they would be investing billions of dollars in renewables. we don't know what part our future experiences played in this decision, but we know that they've changed their energy policy to mitigate such a scenario.while something like air from the future is very effective and tangible, the trajectory from our present to a future consequence is not always so linear. even when a technology is developed with utopian ideals, the moment it leaves the laboratory and enters the world, it is subject to forces outside of the creators' control. for one particular project, we investigated medical genomics: the technology of gathering and using people's genetic data to create personalized medicine. we were asking: what are some of the unintended consequences of linking our genetics to health care? to explore this question further, we created a fictional lawsuit, and brought it to life through 31 pieces of carefully crafted evidence. so we built an illegal genetic clinic, a diy carbon dioxide incubator, and even bought frozen mice on ebay.so now let's go to that future where this lawsuit is unfolding, and meet the defendant, arnold mann. arnold is being prosecuted by this global giant biotech company called dynamic genetics, because they have evidence that arnold has illegally inserted the company's patented genetic material into his body. how on earth did arnold manage to do that? well, it all started when arnold was asked to submit a saliva sample in this spit kit to the nhi — the uk's national health insurance service. when arnold received his health insurance bill, he was shocked and scared to see that his premiums had gone through the roof, beyond anything he or his family could ever afford.the state's algorithm had scanned his genetic data and found the risk of a chronic health condition lurking in his dna. and so arnold had to start paying toward the potential costs of that future disease — potential future disease from today. in that moment of fear and panic, arnold slipped through the city into the dark shadows of this illegal clinic for treatment — a treatment that would modify his dna so that the state's algorithm would no longer see him as a risk, and his insurance premiums would become affordable again. but arnold was caught. and the legal proceedings in the case dynamic genetics v. mann began.in bringing such a future to life, what was important to us was that people could actually touch, see and feel its potential, because such an immediate and close encounter provokes people to ask the right questions, questions like: what are the implications of living in a world where i'm judged on my genetics? or: who might claim ownership to my genetic data, and what might they do with it? if this feels even slightly out-there or farfetched, today there's a little-known bill being passed through the american congress known as hr 1313, preserving employee wellness programs act. this bill proposes to amend the genetic information nondiscrimination act, popularly known as gina, and would allow employers to ask about family medical history and genetic data to all employees for the first time. those who refuse would face large penalties.in the work i've shown so far, whether it was drones or genetic crimes, these stories describe troubling futures with the intention of helping us avoid those futures. but what about what we can't avoid? today, especially with climate change, it looks like we are heading for trouble. and so what we want to do now is to prepare for that future by developing tools and attitudes that can help us find hope — hope that can inspire action.currently, we are running an experiment in our studio. it's a work in progress. based on climate data projections, we are exploring a future where the western world has moved from abundance to scarcity. we imagine living in a future city with repeated flooding, periods with almost no food in supermarkets, economic instabilities, broken supply chains. what can we do to not just survive, but prosper in such a world? what food can we eat?to really step inside these questions, we are building this room in a flat in london from 2050. it's like a little time capsule that we reclaimed from the future. we stripped it down to the bare minimum. everything we lovingly put in our homes, like flat-panel tvs, internet-connected fridges and artisanal furnishings all had to go. and in its place, we're building food computers from abandoned, salvaged and repurposed materials, turning today's waste into tomorrow's dinner. for instance, we've just finished building our first fully automated fogponics machine. it uses the technique of fogponics — so just fog as a nutrient, not even water or soil — to grow things quickly. at the moment, we have successfully grown tomatoes. but we'll need more food than what we can grow in this small room. so what else could we forage from the city? insects? pigeons? foxes?earlier, we brought back air from the future. this time we are bringing an entire room from the future, a room full of hope, tools and tactics to create positive action in hostile conditions. spending time in this room, a room that could be our own future home, makes the consequences of climate change and food insecurity much more immediate and tangible.what we're learning through such experiments and our practice and the people we engage with is that creating concrete experiences can bridge the disconnect between today and tomorrow. by putting ourselves into different possible futures, by becoming open and willing to embrace the uncertainty and discomfort that such an act can bring, we have the opportunity to imagine new possibilities. we can find optimistic futures; we can find paths forward; we can move beyond hope into action. it means we have the chance to change direction, a chance to have our voices heard, a chance to write ourselves into a future we want. other worlds are possible.thank you. <title = "The refugee crisis is a test of our character">
<tags = "['TED Books', 'activism', 'big problems', 'children', 'collaboration', 'community', 'disaster relief', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'humanity', 'policy', 'refugees', 'security', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Refugee advocate">
i'm going to speak to you about the global refugee crisis and my aim is to show you that this crisis is manageable, not unsolvable, but also show you that this is as much about us and who we are as it is a trial of the refugees on the front line.for me, this is not just a professional obligation, because i run an ngo supporting refugees and displaced people around the world. it's personal.i love this picture. that really handsome guy on the right, that's not me. that's my dad, ralph, in london, in 1940 with his father samuel. they were jewish refugees from belgium. they fled the day the nazis invaded. and i love this picture, too. it's a group of refugee children arriving in england in 1946 from poland. and in the middle is my mother, marion. she was sent to start a new life in a new country on her own at the age of 12. i know this: if britain had not admitted refugees in the 1940s, i certainly would not be here today.yet 70 years on, the wheel has come full circle. the sound is of walls being built, vengeful political rhetoric, humanitarian values and principles on fire in the very countries that 70 years ago said never again to statelessness and hopelessness for the victims of war. last year, every minute, 24 more people were displaced from their homes by conflict, violence and persecution: another chemical weapon attack in syria, the taliban on the rampage in afghanistan, girls driven from their school in northeast nigeria by boko haram. these are not people moving to another country to get a better life. they're fleeing for their lives.it's a real tragedy that the world's most famous refugee can't come to speak to you here today. many of you will know this picture. it shows the lifeless body of five-year-old alan kurdi, a syrian refugee who died in the mediterranean in 2015. he died alongside 3,700 others trying to get to europe. the next year, 2016, 5,000 people died. it's too late for them, but it's not too late for millions of others.it's not too late for people like frederick. i met him in the nyarugusu refugee camp in tanzania. he's from burundi. he wanted to know where could he complete his studies. he'd done 11 years of schooling. he wanted a 12th year. he said to me, "i pray that my days do not end here in this refugee camp."and it's not too late for halud. her parents were palestinian refugees living in the yarmouk refugee camp outside damascus. she was born to refugee parents, and now she's a refugee herself in lebanon. she's working for the international rescue committee to help other refugees, but she has no certainty at all about her future, where it is or what it holds.this talk is about frederick, about halud and about millions like them: why they're displaced, how they survive, what help they need and what our responsibilities are. i truly believe this, that the biggest question in the 21st century concerns our duty to strangers. the future "you" is about your duties to strangers. you know better than anyone, the world is more connected than ever before, yet the great danger is that we're consumed by our divisions. and there is no better test of that than how we treat refugees.here are the facts: 65 million people displaced from their homes by violence and persecution last year. if it was a country, that would be the 21st largest country in the world. most of those people, about 40 million, stay within their own home country, but 25 million are refugees. that means they cross a border into a neighboring state. most of them are living in poor countries, relatively poor or lower-middle-income countries, like lebanon, where halud is living. in lebanon, one in four people is a refugee, a quarter of the whole population.and refugees stay for a long time. the average length of displacement is 10 years. i went to what was the world's largest refugee camp, in eastern kenya. it's called dadaab. it was built in 1991-92 as a "temporary camp" for somalis fleeing the civil war. i met silo. and naïvely i said to silo, "do you think you'll ever go home to somalia?" and she said, "what do you mean, go home? i was born here." and then when i asked the camp management how many of the 330,000 people in that camp were born there, they gave me the answer: 100,000. that's what long-term displacement means.now, the causes of this are deep: weak states that can't support their own people, an international political system weaker than at any time since 1945 and differences over theology, governance, engagement with the outside world in significant parts of the muslim world. now, those are long-term, generational challenges. that's why i say that this refugee crisis is a trend and not a blip. and it's complex, and when you have big, large, long-term, complex problems, people think nothing can be done.when pope francis went to lampedusa, off the coast of italy, in 2014, he accused all of us and the global population of what he called "the globalization of indifference." it's a haunting phrase. it means that our hearts have turned to stone. now, i don't know, you tell me. are you allowed to argue with the pope, even at a ted conference? but i think it's not right. i think people do want to make a difference, but they just don't know whether there are any solutions to this crisis. and what i want to tell you today is that though the problems are real, the solutions are real, too.solution one: these refugees need to get into work in the countries where they're living, and the countries where they're living need massive economic support. in uganda in 2014, they did a study: 80 percent of refugees in the capital city kampala needed no humanitarian aid because they were working. they were supported into work.solution number two: education for kids is a lifeline, not a luxury, when you're displaced for so long. kids can bounce back when they're given the proper social, emotional support alongside literacy and numeracy. i've seen it for myself. but half of the world's refugee children of primary school age get no education at all, and three-quarters of secondary school age get no education at all. that's crazy.solution number three: most refugees are in urban areas, in cities, not in camps. what would you or i want if we were a refugee in a city? we would want money to pay rent or buy clothes. that is the future of the humanitarian system, or a significant part of it: give people cash so that you boost the power of refugees and you'll help the local economy.and there's a fourth solution, too, that's controversial but needs to be talked about. the most vulnerable refugees need to be given a new start and a new life in a new country, including in the west. the numbers are relatively small, hundreds of thousands, not millions, but the symbolism is huge. now is not the time to be banning refugees, as the trump administration proposes. it's a time to be embracing people who are victims of terror. and remember — remember, anyone who asks you, "are they properly vetted?" that's a really sensible and good question to ask. the truth is, refugees arriving for resettlement are more vetted than any other population arriving in our countries. so while it's reasonable to ask the question, it's not reasonable to say that refugee is another word for terrorist.now, what happens — what happens when refugees can't get work, they can't get their kids into school, they can't get cash, they can't get a legal route to hope? what happens is they take risky journeys. i went to lesbos, this beautiful greek island, two years ago. it's a home to 90,000 people. in one year, 500,000 refugees went across the island. and i want to show you what i saw when i drove across to the north of the island: a pile of life jackets of those who had made it to shore. and when i looked closer, there were small life jackets for children, yellow ones. and i took this picture. you probably can't see the writing, but i want to read it for you. "warning: will not protect against drowning." so in the 21st century, children are being given life jackets to reach safety in europe even though those jackets will not save their lives if they fall out of the boat that is taking them there.this is not just a crisis, it's a test. it's a test that civilizations have faced down the ages. it's a test of our humanity. it's a test of us in the western world of who we are and what we stand for. it's a test of our character, not just our policies. and refugees are a hard case. they do come from faraway parts of the world. they have been through trauma. they're often of a different religion. those are precisely the reasons we should be helping refugees, not a reason not to help them. and it's a reason to help them because of what it says about us. it's revealing of our values. empathy and altruism are two of the foundations of civilization. turn that empathy and altruism into action and we live out a basic moral credo.and in the modern world, we have no excuse. we can't say we don't know what's happening in juba, south sudan, or aleppo, syria. it's there, in our smartphone in our hand. ignorance is no excuse at all. fail to help, and we show we have no moral compass at all.it's also revealing about whether we know our own history. the reason that refugees have rights around the world is because of extraordinary western leadership by statesmen and women after the second world war that became universal rights. trash the protections of refugees, and we trash our own history. this is — this is also revealing about the power of democracy as a refuge from dictatorship. how many politicians have you heard say, "we believe in the power of our example, not the example of our power." what they mean is what we stand for is more important than the bombs we drop. refugees seeking sanctuary have seen the west as a source of hope and a place of haven. russians, iranians, chinese, eritreans, cubans, they've come to the west for safety. we throw that away at our peril.and there's one other thing it reveals about us: whether we have any humility for our own mistakes. i'm not one of these people who believes that all the problems in the world are caused by the west. they're not. but when we make mistakes, we should recognize it. it's not an accident that the country which has taken more refugees than any other, the united states, has taken more refugees from vietnam than any other country. it speaks to the history. but there's more recent history, in iraq and afghanistan. you can't make up for foreign policy errors by humanitarian action, but when you break something, you have a duty to try to help repair it, and that's our duty now.do you remember at the beginning of the talk, i said i wanted to explain that the refugee crisis was manageable, not insoluble? that's true. i want you to think in a new way, but i also want you to do things. if you're an employer, hire refugees. if you're persuaded by the arguments, take on the myths when family or friends or workmates repeat them. if you've got money, give it to charities that make a difference for refugees around the world. if you're a citizen, vote for politicians who will put into practice the solutions that i've talked about. the duty to strangers shows itself in small ways and big, prosaic and heroic. in 1942, my aunt and my grandmother were living in brussels under german occupation. they received a summons from the nazi authorities to go to brussels railway station. my grandmother immediately thought something was amiss. she pleaded with her relatives not to go to brussels railway station. her relatives said to her, "if we don't go, if we don't do what we're told, then we're going to be in trouble." you can guess what happened to the relatives who went to brussels railway station. they were never seen again. but my grandmother and my aunt, they went to a small village south of brussels where they'd been on holiday in the decade before, and they presented themselves at the house of the local farmer, a catholic farmer called monsieur maurice, and they asked him to take them in. and he did, and by the end of the war, 17 jews, i was told, were living in that village.and when i was teenager, i asked my aunt, "can you take me to meet monsieur maurice?" and she said, "yeah, i can. he's still alive. let's go and see him." and so, it must have been '83, '84, we went to see him. and i suppose, like only a teenager could, when i met him, he was this white-haired gentleman, i said to him, "why did you do it? why did you take that risk?" and he looked at me and he shrugged, and he said, in french, "on doit." "one must." it was innate in him. it was natural. and my point to you is it should be natural and innate in us, too. tell yourself, this refugee crisis is manageable, not unsolvable, and each one of us has a personal responsibility to help make it so. because this is about the rescue of us and our values as well as the rescue of refugees and their lives.thank you very much indeed. bruno giussani: david, thank you. david miliband: thank you.bg: those are strong suggestions and your call for individual responsibility is very strong as well, but i'm troubled by one thought, and it's this: you mentioned, and these are your words, "extraordinary western leadership" which led 60-something years ago to the whole discussion about human rights, to the conventions on refugees, etc. etc. that leadership happened after a big trauma and happened in a consensual political space, and now we are in a divisive political space. actually, refugees have become one of the divisive issues. so where will leadership come from today?dm: well, i think that you're right to say that the leadership forged in war has a different temper and a different tempo and a different outlook than leadership forged in peace. and so my answer would be the leadership has got to come from below, not from above. i mean, a recurring theme of the conference this week has been about the democratization of power. and we've got to preserve our own democracies, but we've got to also activate our own democracies. and when people say to me, "there's a backlash against refugees," what i say to them is, "no, there's a polarization, and at the moment, those who are fearful are making more noise than those who are proud." and so my answer to your question is that we will sponsor and encourage and give confidence to leadership when we mobilize ourselves. and i think that when you are in a position of looking for leadership, you have to look inside and mobilize in your own community to try to create conditions for a different kind of settlement.bg: thank you, david. thanks for coming to ted. <title = "Why design should include everyone">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'design', 'disability', 'fashion', 'product design']">
<occupation = "Writer, educator">
i want to give you a new perspective. that sounds grandiose, and it is. i left ireland yesterday morning. i traveled from dublin to new york independently. but the design of an airport, plane and terminal offers little independence when you're 105 and a half centimeters tall. for americans, that's 3' 5". i was whisked through the airport by airline assistants in a wheelchair. now, i don't need to use a wheelchair, but the design of an airport and its lack of accessibility means that it's my only way to get through. with my carry-on bag between my feet, i was wheeled through security, preclearance and i arrived at my boarding gate.i use the accessibility services in the airport because most of the terminal is just not designed with me in mind. take security, for example. i'm not strong enough to lift my carry-on bag from the ground to the carousel. i stand at eye level with it. and those who work in that space for safety purposes cannot help me and cannot do it for me. design inhibits my autonomy and my independence. but traveling at this size, it isn't all bad. the leg room in economy is like business class. i often forget that i'm a little person. it's the physical environment and society that remind me. using a public bathroom is an excruciating experience. i walk into the cubicle but i can't reach the lock on the door. i'm creative and resilient. i look around and see if there's a bin that i can turn upside down. is it safe? not really. is it hygienic and sanitary? definitely not. but the alternative is much worse. if that doesn't work, i use my phone. it gives me an additional four- to six-inch reach, and i try to jam the lock closed with my iphone. now, i imagine that's not what jony ive had in mind when he designed the iphone, but it works. the alternative is that i approach a stranger. i apologize profusely and i ask them to stand guard outside my cubicle door. they do and i emerge grateful but absolutely mortified, and hope that they didn't notice that i left the bathroom without washing my hands. i carry hand sanitizer with me every single day because the sink, soap dispenser, hand dryer and mirror are all out of my reach.now, the accessible bathroom is somewhat of an option. in this space, i can reach the lock on the door, the sink, the soap dispenser, the hand dryer and the mirror. yet, i cannot use the toilet. it is deliberately designed higher so that wheelchair users can transfer across with ease. this is a wonderful and necessary innovation, but in the design world, when we describe a new project or idea as accessible, what does that mean? who is it accessible to? and whose needs are not being accommodated for?now, the bathroom is an example of where design impinges upon my dignity, but the physical environment impacts upon me in much more casual ways too, something as simple as ordering a cup of coffee. now, i'll admit it. i drink far too much coffee. my order is a skinny vanilla latte, but i'm trying to wean myself off the syrup. but the coffee shop, it's not designed well, at least not for me. queuing, i'm standing beside the pastry cabinet and the barista calls for the next order. "next, please!" they shout. they can't see me. the person next to me in the queue points to my existence and everyone is embarrassed. i order as quick as i can and i move along to collect my coffee. now, think just for a second. where do they put it? up high and without a lid. reaching up to collect a coffee that i have paid for is an incredibly dangerous experience.but design also impinges on the clothes that i want to wear. i want garments that reflect my personality. it's difficult to find in the childrenswear department. and often womenswear requires far too many alterations. i want shoes that affect my maturity, professionalism and sophistication. instead, i'm offered sneakers with velcro straps and light-up shoes. now, i'm not totally opposed to light-up shoes. but design also impacts on such simple things, like sitting on a chair. i cannot go from a standing to a seating position with grace. due to the standards of design heights of chairs, i have to crawl on my hands and knees just to get on top of it, whilst also being conscious that it might tip over at any stage.but whilst design impacts on me whether it's a chair, a bathroom, a coffee shop, or clothes, i rely on and benefit from the kindness of strangers. but not everybody is so nice. i'm reminded that i'm a little person when a stranger points, stares, laughs, calls me a name, or takes a photograph of me. this happens almost every day. with the rise of social media, it has given me an opportunity and a platform to have a voice as a blogger and as an activist, but it has also made me nervous that i might become a meme or a viral sensation, all without my consent.so let's take a moment right now to make something very clear. the word "midget" is a slur. it evolved from pt barnum's era of circuses and freak shows. society has evolved. so should our vocabulary. language is a powerful tool. it does not just name our society. it shapes it.i am incredibly proud to be a little person, to have inherited the condition of achondroplasia. but i am most proud to be sinead. achondroplasia is the most common form of dwarfism. achondroplasia translates as "without cartilage formation." i have short limbs and achondroplastic facial features, my forehead and my nose. my arms do not straighten fully, but i can lick my elbow. i'm not showing you that one. achondroplasia occurs in approximately one in every 20,000 births. 80 percent of little people are born to two average-height parents. that means that anybody in this room could have a child with achondroplasia. yet, i inherited my condition from my dad. i'd like to show you a photo of my family. my mother is average height, my father is a little person and i am the eldest of five children. i have three sisters and one brother. they are all average height. i am incredibly fortunate to have been born into a family that cultivated my curiosity and my tenacity, that protected me from the unkindness and ignorance of strangers and that armed me with the resilience, creativity and confidence that i needed to survive and manipulate the physical environment and society. if i was to pinpoint any reason why i am successful, it is because i was and i am a loved child, now, a loved child with a lot of sass and sarcasm, but a loved child nonetheless.in giving you an insight into who i am today i wanted to offer you a new perspective. i wanted to challenge the idea that design is but a tool to create function and beauty. design greatly impacts upon people's lives, all lives. design is a way in which we can feel included in the world, but it is also a way in which we can uphold a person's dignity and their human rights. design can also inflict vulnerability on a group whose needs aren't considered.so today, i want your perceptions challenged. who are we not designing for? how can we amplify their voices and their experiences? what is the next step? design is an enormous privilege, but it is a bigger responsibility. i want you to open your eyes.thank you so much. <title = "A celebration of natural hair">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'beauty', 'fashion', 'identity', 'inequality', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Storyteller">
i am from the south side of chicago, and in seventh grade, i had a best friend named jenny who lived on the southwest side of chicago. jenny was white, and if you know anything about the segregated demographics of chicago, you know that there are not too many black people who live on the southwest side of chicago. but jenny was my girl and so we would hang out every so often after school and on the weekends. and so one day we were hanging out in her living room, talking about 13-year-old things, and jenny's little sister rosie was in the room with us, and she was sitting behind me just kind of playing in my hair, and i wasn't thinking too much about what she was doing. but at a pause in the conversation, rosie tapped me on the shoulder. she said, "can i ask you a question?"i said, "yeah, rosie. sure.""are you black?" the room froze. silence. jenny and rosie's mom was not too far away. she was in the kitchen and she overheard the conversation, and she was mortified. she said, "rosie! you can't ask people questions like that." and jenny was my friend, and i know she was really embarrassed. i felt kind of bad for her, but actually i was not offended. i figured it wasn't rosie's fault that in her 10 short years on this earth, living on the southwest side of chicago, she wasn't 100 percent sure what a black person looked like. that's fair. but what was more surprising to me was, in all of this time i had spent with jenny and rosie's family — hanging out with them, playing with them, even physically interacting with them — it was not until rosie put her hands in my hair that she thought to ask me if i was black. that was the first time i would realize how big of a role the texture of my hair played in confirming my ethnicity, but also that it would play a key role in how i'm viewed by others in society.garrett a. morgan and madame cj walker were pioneers of the black hair-care and beauty industry in the early 1900s. they're best known as the inventors of chemically-based hair creams and heat straightening tools designed to permanently, or semipermanently, alter the texture of black hair. oftentimes when we think about the history of blacks in america, we think about the heinous acts and numerous injustices that we experienced as people of color because of the color of our skin, when in fact, in post-civil war america, it was the hair of an african-american male or female that was known as the most "telling feature" of negro status, more so than the color of the skin. and so before they were staples of the multibillion-dollar hair-care industry, our dependency on tools and products, like the hair relaxer and the pressing comb, were more about our survival and advancement as a race in postslavery america.over the years, we grew accustomed to this idea that straighter and longer hair meant better and more beautiful. we became culturally obsessed with this idea of having what we like to call ... "good hair." this essentially means: the looser the curl pattern, the better the hair. and we let these institutionalized ideas form a false sense of hierarchy that would determine what was considered a good grade of hair and what was not. what's worse is that we let these false ideologies invade our perception of ourselves, and they still continue to infect our cultural identity as african-american women today.so what did we do? we went to the hair salon every six to eight weeks, without fail, to subject our scalps to harsh straightening chemicals beginning at a very young age — sometimes eight, 10 — that would result in hair loss, bald spots, sometimes even burns on the scalp. we fry our hair at temperatures of 450 degrees fahrenheit or higher almost daily, to maintain the straight look. or we simply cover our hair up with wigs and weaves, only to let our roots breathe in private where no one knows what's really going on under there.we adopted these practices in our own communities, and so it's no wonder why today the typical ideal vision of a professional black woman, especially in corporate america, tends to look like this, rather than like this. and she certainly doesn't look like this.in september of this year, a federal court ruled it lawful for a company to discriminate against hiring an employee based on if she or he wears dreadlocks. in the case, the hiring manager in mobile, alabama is on record as saying, "i'm not saying yours are messy, but ... you know what i'm talking about." well, what was she talking about? did she think that they were ugly? or maybe they were just a little too afrocentric and pro-black-looking for her taste. or maybe it's not about afrocentricity, and it's more just about it being a little too "urban" for the professional setting. perhaps she had a genuine concern in that they looked "scary" and that they would intimidate the clients and their customer base. all of these words are ones that are too often associated with the stigma attached to natural hairstyles. and this ... this has got to change.in 2013, a white paper published by the deloitte leadership center for inclusion, studied 3,000 individuals in executive leadership roles on the concept of covering in the workplace based on appearance, advocacy, affiliation and association. when thinking about appearance-based covering, the study showed that 67 percent of women of color cover in the workplace based on their appearance. of the total respondents who admitted to appearance-based covering, 82 percent said that it was somewhat to extremely important for them to do so for their professional advancement.now, this is ursula burns. she is the first african-american female ceo of a fortune 500 company — of xerox. she's known by her signature look, the one that you see here. a short, nicely trimmed, well-manicured afro. ms. burns is what we like to call a "natural girl." and she is paving the way and showing what's possible for african-american women seeking to climb the corporate ladder, but still wishing to wear natural hairstyles.but today the majority of african-american women who we still look to as leaders, icons and role models, still opt for a straight-hair look. now, maybe it's because they want to — this is authentically how they feel best — but maybe — and i bet — a part of them felt like they had to in order to reach the level of success that they have attained today.there is a natural hair movement that is sweeping the country and also in some places in europe. millions of women are exploring what it means to transition to natural hair, and they're cutting off years and years of dry, damaged ends in order to restore their natural curl pattern. i know because i have been an advocate and an ambassador for this movement for roughly the last three years. after 27 years of excessive heat and harsh chemicals, my hair was beginning to show extreme signs of wear and tear. it was breaking off, it was thinning, looking just extremely dry and brittle. all those years of chasing that conventional image of beauty that we saw earlier was finally beginning to take its toll. i wanted to do something about it, and so i started what i called the "no heat challenge," where i would refrain from using heat styling tools on my hair for six months. and like a good millennial, i documented it on social media. i documented as i reluctantly cut off three to four inches of my beloved hair. i documented as i struggled to master these natural hairstyles, and also as i struggled to embrace them and think that they actually looked good. and i documented as my hair texture slowly began to change.by sharing this journey openly, i learned that i was not the only woman going through this and that in fact there were thousands and thousands of other women who were longing to do the same. so they would reach out to me and they would say, "cheyenne, how did you do that natural hairstyle that i saw you with the other day? what new products have you started using that might be a little better for my hair texture as it begins to change?" or, "what are some of the natural hair routines that i should begin to adopt to slowly restore the health of my hair?" but i also found that there were a large number of women who were extremely hesitant to take that first step because they were paralyzed by fear. fear of the unknown — what would they now look like? how would they feel about themselves with these natural hairstyles? and most importantly to them, how would others view them?over the last three years of having numerous conversations with friends of mine and also complete strangers from around the world, i learned some really important things about how african-american women identify with their hair. and so when i think back to that hiring manager in mobile, alabama, i'd say, "actually, no. we don't know what you're talking about." but here are some things that we do know. we know that when black women embrace their love for their natural hair, it helps to undo generations of teaching that black in its natural state is not beautiful, or something to be hidden or covered up. we know that black women express their individuality and experience feelings of empowerment by experimenting with different hairstyles regularly. and we also know that when we're invited to wear our natural hair in the workplace, it reinforces that we are uniquely valued and thus helps us to flourish and advance professionally.i leave you with this. in a time of racial and social tension, embracing this movement and others like this help us to rise above the confines of the status quo. so when you see a woman with braids or locks draping down her back, or you notice your colleague who has stopped straightening her hair to work, do not simply approach her and admire and ask her if you can touch it — really appreciate her. applaud her. heck, even high-five her if that's what you feel so inclined to do. because this — this is more than about a hairstyle. it's about self-love and self-worth. it's about being brave enough not to fold under the pressure of others' expectations. and about knowing that making the decision to stray from the norm does not define who we are, but it simply reveals who we are.and finally, being brave is easier when we can count on the compassion of others. so after today, i certainly hope that we can count on you.thank you. <title = "Don't feel sorry for refugees -- believe in them">
<tags = "['children', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'identity', 'immigration', 'refugees', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Refugee activist">
i remember when i first found out i was going to speak at a ted conference. i ran across the hall to one of my classrooms to inform my students."guess what, guys? i've been asked to give a ted talk."the reaction wasn't one i quite expected. the whole room went silent."a ted talk? you mean, like the one you made us watch on grit? or the one with the scientist that did this really awesome thing with robots?" muhammad asked."yes, just like that.""but coach, those people are really important and smart." "i know that.""but coach, why are you speaking? you hate public speaking.""i do," i admitted, "but it's important that i speak about us, that i speak about your journeys, about my journey. people need to know."the students at the all-refugee school that i founded decided to end with some words of encouragement."cool! it better be good, coach." there are 65.3 million people who have been forcibly displaced from their homes because of war or persecution. the largest number, 11 million, are from syria. 33,952 people flee their homes daily. the vast majority remain in refugee camps, whose conditions cannot be defined as humane under anyone's definition. we are participating in the degradation of humans. never have we had numbers this high. this is the highest number of refugees since world war ii.now, let me tell you why this issue is so important to me. i am an arab. i am an immigrant. i am a muslim. i've also spent the last 12 years of my life working with refugees. oh — and i'm also gay. it makes me really popular these days. but i am the daughter of a refugee. my grandmother fled syria in 1964 during the first assad regime. she was three months pregnant when she packed up a suitcase, piled in her five children and drove to neighboring jordan, not knowing what the future held for her and her family. my grandfather decided to stay, not believing it was that bad. he followed her a month later, after his brothers were tortured and his factory was taken over by the government. they rebuilt their lives starting from scratch and eventually became independently wealthy jordanian citizens.i was born in jordan 11 years later. it was really important to my grandmother for us to know our history and our journey. i was eight years old when she took me to visit my first refugee camp. i didn't understand why. i didn't know why it was so important to her for us to go. i remember walking into the camp holding her hand, and her saying, "go play with the kids," while she visited with the women in the camp. i didn't want to. these kids weren't like me. they were poor. they lived in a camp. i refused. she knelt down beside me and firmly said, "go. and don't come back until you've played. don't ever think people are beneath you or that you have nothing to learn from others."i reluctantly went. i never wanted to disappoint my grandmother. i returned a few hours later, having spent some time playing soccer with the kids in the camp. we walked out of the camp, and i was excitedly telling her what a great time i had and how fantastic the kids were."haram!" i said in arabic. "poor them.""haram on us," she said, using the word's different meaning, that we were sinning. "don't feel sorry for them; believe in them."it wasn't until i left my country of origin for the united states that i realized the impact of her words.after my college graduation, i applied for and was granted political asylum, based on being a member of a social group. some people may not realize this, but you can still get the death penalty in some countries for being gay. i had to give up my jordanian citizenship. that was the hardest decision i've ever had to make, but i had no other choice. the point is, when you find yourself choosing between home and survival, the question "where are you from?" becomes very loaded. a syrian woman who i recently met at a refugee camp in greece articulated it best, when she recalled the exact moment she realized she had to flee aleppo."i looked out the window and there was nothing. it was all rubble. there were no stores, no streets, no schools. everything was gone. i had been in my apartment for months, listening to bombs drop and watching people die. but i always thought it would get better, that no one could force me to leave, no one could take my home away from me. and i don't know why it was that morning, but when i looked outside, i realized if i didn't leave, my three young children would die. and so we left. we left because we had to, not because we wanted to. there was no choice," she said.it's kind of hard to believe that you belong when you don't have a home, when your country of origin rejects you because of fear or persecution, or the city that you grew up in is completely destroyed. i didn't feel like i had a home. i was no longer a jordanian citizen, but i wasn't american, either. i felt a kind of loneliness that is still hard to put into words today.after college, i desperately needed to find a place to call home. i bounced around from state to state and eventually ended up in north carolina. kindhearted people who felt sorry for me offered to pay rent or buy me a meal or a suit for my new interview. it just made me feel more isolated and incapable. it wasn't until i met miss sarah, a southern baptist who took me in at my lowest and gave me a job, that i started to believe in myself. miss sarah owned a diner in the mountains of north carolina. i assumed, because of my privileged upbringing and my seven sister education, that she would ask me to manage the restaurant. i was wrong. i started off washing dishes, cleaning toilets and working the grill. i was humbled; i was shown the value of hard work. but most importantly, i felt valued and embraced. i celebrated christmas with her family, and she attempted to observe ramadan with me.i remember being very nervous about coming out to her — after all, she was a southern baptist. i sat on the couch next to her and i said, "miss sarah, you know that i'm gay." her response is one that i will never forget."that's fine, honey. just don't be a slut." i eventually moved to atlanta, still trying to find my home. my journey took a strange turn three years later, after i met a group of refugee kids playing soccer outside. i'd made a wrong turn into this apartment complex, and i saw these kids outside playing soccer. they were playing barefoot with a raggedy soccer ball and rocks set up as goals. i watched them for about an hour, and after that i was smiling. the boys reminded me of home. they reminded me of the way i grew up playing soccer in the streets of jordan, with my brothers and cousins. i eventually joined their game. they were a little skeptical about letting me join it, because according to them, girls don't know how to play. but obviously i did.i asked them if they had ever played on a team. they said they hadn't, but that they would love to. i gradually won them over, and we formed our first team. this group of kids would give me a crash course in refugees, poverty and humanity. three brothers from afghanistan — roohullah, noorullah and zabiullah — played a major role in that. i showed up late to practice one day to find the field completely deserted. i was really worried. my team loved to practice. it wasn't like them to miss practice. i got out of my car, and two kids ran out from behind a dumpster, waving their hands frantically."coach, rooh got beat up. he got jumped. there was blood everywhere.""what do you mean? what do you mean he got beat up?""these bad kids came and beat him up, coach. everybody left. they were all scared."we hopped into my car and drove over to rooh's apartment. i knocked on the door, and noor opened it. "where's rooh? i need to talk to him, see if he's ok." "he's in his room, coach. he's refusing to come out." i knocked on the door."rooh, come on out. i need to talk to you. i need to see if you're ok or if we need to go to the hospital."he came out. he had a big gash on his head, a split lip, and he was physically shaken. i was looking at him, and i asked the boys to call for their mom, because i needed to go to the hospital with him. they called for their mom. she came out. i had my back turned to her, and she started screaming in farsi. the boys fell to the ground laughing. i was very confused, because there was nothing funny about this. they explained to me that she said,"you told me your coach was a muslim and a woman." from behind, i didn't appear to be either to her. "i am muslim," i said, turning to her. "ašhadu ʾan lā ʾilāha ʾilla (a)llāh," reciting the muslim declaration of faith. confused, and perhaps maybe a little bit reassured, she realized that yes, i, this american-acting, shorts-wearing, non-veiled woman, was indeed a muslim.their family had fled the taliban. hundreds of people in their village were murdered. their father was taken in by the taliban, only to return a few months later, a shell of the man he once was. the family escaped to pakistan, and the two older boys, age eight and 10 at the time, wove rugs for 10 hours a day to provide for their family. they were so excited when they found out that they had been approved to resettle in the united states, making them the lucky 0.1 percent who get to do that. they had hit the jackpot.their story is not unique. every refugee family i have worked with has had some version of this. i work with kids who have seen their mothers raped, their fathers' fingers sliced off. one kid saw a bullet put in his grandmother's head, because she refused to let the rebels take him to be a child soldier. their journeys are haunting. but what i get to see every day is hope, resilience, determination, a love of life and appreciation for being able to rebuild their lives.i was at the boys' apartment one night, when the mom came home after cleaning 18 hotel rooms in one day. she sat down, and noor rubbed her feet, saying that he was going to take care of her once he graduated. she smiled from exhaustion. "god is good. life is good. we are lucky to be here."in the last two years, we have seen an escalating anti-refugee sentiment. it's global. the numbers continue to grow because we do nothing to prevent it and nothing to stop it. the issue shouldn't be stopping refugees from coming into our countries. the issue should be not forcing them to leave their own. sorry. how much more suffering, how much more suffering must we take? how many more people need to be forced out of their homes before we say, "enough!"? a hundred million? not only do we shame, blame and reject them for atrocities that they had absolutely nothing to do with, we re-traumatize them, when we're supposed to be welcoming them into our countries. we strip them of their dignity and treat them like criminals.i had a student in my office a couple of weeks ago. she's originally from iraq. she broke down crying."why do they hate us?""who hates you?""everyone; everyone hates us because we are refugees, because we are muslim."in the past, i was able to reassure my students that the majority of the world does not hate refugees. but this time i couldn't. i couldn't explain to her why someone tried to rip off her mother's hijab when they were grocery shopping, or why a player on an opposing team called her a terrorist and told her to go back where she came from. i couldn't reassure her that her father's ultimate life sacrifice by serving in the united states military as an interpreter would make her more valued as an american citizen.we take in so few refugees worldwide. we resettle less than 0.1 percent. that 0.1 percent benefits us more than them. it dumbfounds me how the word "refugee" is considered something to be dirty, something to be ashamed of. they have nothing to be ashamed of.we have seen advances in every aspect of our lives — except our humanity. there are 65.3 million people who have been forced out of their homes because of war — the largest number in history. we are the ones who should be ashamed.thank you. <title = "Lifesaving scientific tools made of paper">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'disease', 'health care', 'innovation', 'invention', 'medicine', 'product design']">
<occupation = "Physicist, inventor">
so, i love making tools and sharing them with people. i remember as a child, my first tool i built was actually a microscope that i built by stealing lenses from my brother's eyeglasses. he wasn't that thrilled. but, you know, maybe because of that moment, 30 years later, i'm still making microscopes. and the reason i built these tools is for moments like this.(video) girl: i have black things in my hair —manu prakash: this is a school in the bay area.(video) mp: the living world far supersedes our imagination of how things actually work.(video) boy: oh my god!mp: right — oh my god! i hadn't realized this would be such a universal phrase.over the last two years, in my lab, we built 50,000 foldscopes and shipped them to 130 countries in the world, at no cost to the kids we sent them to. this year alone, with the support of our community, we are planning to ship a million microscopes to kids around the world. what does that do? it creates an inspiring community of people around the world, learning and teaching each other, from kenya to kampala to kathmandu to kansas.and one of the phenomenal things that i love about this is the sense of community. there's a kid in nicaragua teaching others how to identify mosquito species that carry dengue by looking at the larva under a microscope. there's a pharmacologist who came up with a new way to detect fake drugs anywhere. there is a girl who wondered: "how does glitter actually work?" and discovered the physics of crystalline formation in glitter. there is an argentinian doctor who's trying to do field cervical cancer screening with this tool. and yours very truly found a species of flea that was dug inside my heel in my foot one centimeter deep.now, you might think of these as anomalies. but there is a method to this madness. i call this "frugal science" — the idea of sharing the experience of science, and not just the information. to remind you: there are a billion people on this planet who live with absolutely no infrastructure: no roads, no electricity and thus, no health care. also, there a billion kids on this planet that live in poverty. how are we supposed to inspire them for the next generation of solution makers? there are health care workers that we put on the line to fight infectious diseases, to protect us with absolutely bare-minimum tools and resources.so as a lab at stanford, i think of this from a context of frugal science and building solutions for these communities. often we think about being able to do diagnosis under a tree, off-grid. i'll tell you two examples today of new tools. one of them starts in uganda. in 2013, on a field trip to detect schistosomiasis with foldscopes, i made a minor observation. in a clinic, in a far, remote area, i saw a centrifuge being used as a doorstop. i mean — quite literally, the doorstop. and i asked them and they said, "oh, we don't actually have electricity, so this piece of junk is good as a doorstop." centrifuges, for some of you who don't know, are the pinnacle tool to be able to do sample processing. you separate components of blood or body fluids to be able to detect and identify pathogens. but centrifuges are bulky, expensive — cost around 1,000 dollars — and really hard to carry out in the field. and of course, they don't work without power. sound familiar? so we started thinking about solving this problem, and i came back — kept thinking about toys.now ... i have a few with me here. i first started with yo-yos ... and i'm a terrible yo-yo thrower. because these objects spin, we wondered, could we actually use the physics of these objects to be able to build centrifuges? this was possibly the worst throw i could make. but you might start realizing, if you start exploring the space of toys — we tried these spinning tops, and then in the lab, we stumbled upon this wonder.it's the whirligig, or a buzzer, or a rundle. a couple of strings and a little disk, and if i push, it spins. how many of you have played with this as a kid? this is called a button-on-a-string. ok, maybe 50 percent of you. what you didn't realize — that this little object is the oldest toy in the history of mankind ... 5,000 years ago. we have found relics of this object hidden around on our planet. now the irony is, we actually don't understand how this little thing works. that's when i get excited.so we got back to work, wrote down a couple of equations. if you take the input torque that you put in, you take the drag on this disc, and the twist drag on these strings, you should be able to mathematically solve this. this is not the only equation in my talk. ten pages of math later, we could actually write down the complete analytical solution for this dynamic system. and out comes what we call "paperfuge." that's my postdoc saad bhamla, who's the co-inventor of paperfuge. and to the left, you see all the centrifuges that we're trying to replace.this little object that you see right here is a disc, a couple of strings and a handle. and when i spin and i push, it starts to spin. now, when you realize, when you do the math, when we calculate the rpm for this object, mathematically, we should be able to go all the way to a million rpm. now, there is a little twist in human anatomy, because the resonant frequency of this object is about 10 hertz, and if you've ever played the piano, you can't go higher than two or three hertz. the maximum speed we've been able to achieve with this object is not 10,000 rpm, not 50,000 rpm — 120,000 rpm. that's equal to 30,000 g-forces. if i was to stick you right here and have it spin, you would think about the types of forces you would experience.one of the factors of a tool like this is to be able to do diagnosis with this. so, i'm going to do a quick demo here, where — this is a moment where i'm going to make a little finger prick, and a tiny drop of blood is going to come out. if you don't like blood, you don't have to look at it. here is a little lancet. these lancets are available everywhere, completely passive. and if i've had breakfast today ... that didn't hurt at all. ok, i take a little capillary with a drop of blood — now this drop of blood has answers, that's why i'm interested in it. it might actually tell me whether i have malaria right now or not. i take a little capillary, and you see it starts wicking in. i'm going to draw a little more blood. and that's good enough for right now. now, i just seal this capillary by putting it in clay. and now that's sealed the sample.we're going to take the sample, mount it on paperfuge. a little piece of tape to make a sealed cavity. so now the sample is completely enclosed. and we are ready for a spin. i'm pushing and pulling with this object. i'm going to load this up ... and you see the object starts spinning. unlike a regular centrifuge, this is a counter-rotating centrifuge. it goes back and forth, back and forth ... and now i'm charging it up, and you see it builds momentum. and now — i don't know if you can hear this — 30 seconds of this, and i should be able to separate all the blood cells with the plasma. and the ratio of those blood cells to plasma — already, if you see right here, if you focus on this, you should be able to see a separated volume of blood and plasma. and the ratio of that actually tells me whether i might be anemic.one of the aspects of this is, we build many types of paperfuges. this one allows us to identify malaria parasites by running them for a little longer, and we can identify malaria parasites that are in the blood that we can separate out and detect with something like a centrifuge. another version of this allows me to separate nucleic acids to be able to do nucleic acid tests out in the field itself. here is another version that allows me to separate bulk samples, and then, finally, something new that we've been working on to be able to implement the entire multiplex test on an object like this. so where you do the sample preparation and the chemistry in the same object.now ... this is all good, but when you start thinking about this, you have to share these tools with people. and one of the things we did is — we just got back from madagascar; this is what clinical trials for malaria look like — you can do this while having coffee. but most importantly, this is a village six hours from any road. we are in a room with one of the senior members of the community and a health care worker. it really is this portion of the work that excites me the most — that smile, to be able to share simple but powerful tools with people around the world. now, i forgot to tell you this, that all of that cost me 20 cents to make.ok, in the negative time i have left, i'll tell you about the most recent — invention from our lab. it's called abuzz — the idea that all of you could help us fight mosquitoes; you could all help us track our enemies. these are enemies because they cause malaria, zika, chikungunya, dengue. but the challenge is that we actually don't know where our enemies are. the world map for where mosquitoes are is missing. so we started thinking about this. there are 3,500 species of mosquitoes, and they're all very similar. some of them are so identical that even an entomologist cannot identify them under a microscope.but they have an achilles' heel. this is what mosquitoes flirting with each other looks like. that's a male chasing a female. they're actually talking to each other with their wingbeat frequencies. (buzzing sound) and thus, they have a signature. we realized that using a regular phone, a $5-10 flip phone — how many remember what this object is? we can record these acoustic signatures from mosquitoes. i'll tell you exactly how to do this.i caught some mosquitoes outside. unlike bill [gates], i'm not going to release them. but i will tell you how to record from this. all you do is tap them and they fly. you can first test — i can actually hear that. and you bring your phone, which has microphones — it turns out the mics are so damn good already, even on regular phones, that you can pick up this near-field signature. and since i'm out of time, let me just play the recording that i made a day ago.(mosquitoes buzz)this is all the charming sound that you heard before that you all love. one of the contexts of this is that being able to do this with a regular cell phone allows us to map mosquito species. using a flip phone, we mapped one of the largest acoustic databases with 25 to 20 species of mosquitoes that carry human pathogens. and from this and machine learning, anybody who uploads this data, we can identify and tell the probability of what species of mosquitoes you're actually working with. we call this abuzz, and if any of you want to sign up, just go to the website.let me close with something that's very important and dear to my heart. one of the challenges of today is we have terrible problems. we have a billion people with absolutely no health care, climate change, biodiversity loss, on and on and on. and we hope that science is going to provide the answer.but before you leave this theatre today, i want you to promise one thing. we're going to make science accessible — not just to the people who can afford it, but a billion others who can't. let's make science and scientific literacy a human right. the moment that you pass the tingling feeling of making a discovery to another child, you're enabling them to be the next group of people who will actually solve these problems.thank you. <title = "How we can face the future without fear, together">
<tags = "['community', 'fear', 'future', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'peace', 'personal growth', 'politics', 'religion', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Religious leader">
"these are the times," said thomas paine, "that try men's souls." and they're trying ours now.this is a fateful moment in the history of the west. we've seen divisive elections and divided societies. we've seen a growth of extremism in politics and religion, all of it fueled by anxiety, uncertainty and fear, of a world that's changing almost faster than we can bear, and the sure knowledge that it's going to change faster still. i have a friend in washington. i asked him, what was it like being in america during the recent presidential election? he said to me, "well, it was like the man sitting on the deck of the titanic with a glass of whiskey in his hand and he's saying, 'i know i asked for ice — but this is ridiculous.'"so is there something we can do, each of us, to be able to face the future without fear? i think there is. and one way into it is to see that perhaps the most simple way into a culture and into an age is to ask: what do people worship? people have worshipped so many different things — the sun, the stars, the storm. some people worship many gods, some one, some none. in the 19th and 20th centuries, people worshipped the nation, the aryan race, the communist state. what do we worship? i think future anthropologists will take a look at the books we read on self-help, self-realization, self-esteem. they'll look at the way we talk about morality as being true to oneself, the way we talk about politics as a matter of individual rights, and they'll look at this wonderful new religious ritual we have created. you know the one? called the "selfie." and i think they'll conclude that what we worship in our time is the self, the me, the i.and this is great. it's liberating. it's empowering. it's wonderful. but don't forget that biologically, we're social animals. we've spent most of our evolutionary history in small groups. we need those face-to-face interactions where we learn the choreography of altruism and where we create those spiritual goods like friendship and trust and loyalty and love that redeem our solitude. when we have too much of the "i" and too little of the "we," we can find ourselves vulnerable, fearful and alone. it was no accident that sherry turkle of mit called the book she wrote on the impact of social media "alone together."so i think the simplest way of safeguarding the future "you" is to strengthen the future "us" in three dimensions: the us of relationship, the us of identity and the us of responsibility.so let me first take the us of relationship. and here, forgive me if i get personal. once upon a time, a very long time ago, i was a 20-year-old undergraduate studying philosophy. i was into nietzsche and schopenhauer and sartre and camus. i was full of ontological uncertainty and existential angst. it was terrific. i was self-obsessed and thoroughly unpleasant to know, until one day i saw across the courtyard a girl who was everything that i wasn't. she radiated sunshine. she emanated joy. i found out her name was elaine. we met. we talked. we married. and 47 years, three children and eight grandchildren later, i can safely say it was the best decision i ever took in my life, because it's the people not like us that make us grow. and that is why i think we have to do just that.the trouble with google filters, facebook friends and reading the news by narrowcasting rather than broadcasting means that we're surrounded almost entirely by people like us whose views, whose opinions, whose prejudices, even, are just like ours. and cass sunstein of harvard has shown that if we surround ourselves with people with the same views as us, we get more extreme. i think we need to renew those face-to-face encounters with the people not like us. i think we need to do that in order to realize that we can disagree strongly and yet still stay friends. it's in those face-to-face encounters that we discover that the people not like us are just people, like us. and actually, every time we hold out the hand of friendship to somebody not like us, whose class or creed or color are different from ours, we heal one of the fractures of our wounded world. that is the us of relationship.second is the us of identity. let me give you a thought experiment. have you been to washington? have you seen the memorials? absolutely fascinating. there's the lincoln memorial: gettysburg address on one side, second inaugural on the other. you go to the jefferson memorial, screeds of text. martin luther king memorial, more than a dozen quotes from his speeches. i didn't realize, in america you read memorials. now go to the equivalent in london in parliament square and you will see that the monument to david lloyd george contains three words: david lloyd george. nelson mandela gets two. churchill gets just one: churchill. why the difference? i'll tell you why the difference. because america was from the outset a nation of wave after wave of immigrants, so it had to create an identity which it did by telling a story which you learned at school, you read on memorials and you heard repeated in presidential inaugural addresses. britain until recently wasn't a nation of immigrants, so it could take identity for granted. the trouble is now that two things have happened which shouldn't have happened together. the first thing is in the west we've stopped telling this story of who we are and why, even in america. and at the same time, immigration is higher than it's ever been before. so when you tell a story and your identity is strong, you can welcome the stranger, but when you stop telling the story, your identity gets weak and you feel threatened by the stranger. and that's bad.i tell you, jews have been scattered and dispersed and exiled for 2,000 years. we never lost our identity. why? because at least once a year, on the festival of passover, we told our story and we taught it to our children and we ate the unleavened bread of affliction and tasted the bitter herbs of slavery. so we never lost our identity. i think collectively we've got to get back to telling our story, who we are, where we came from, what ideals by which we live. and if that happens, we will become strong enough to welcome the stranger and say, "come and share our lives, share our stories, share our aspirations and dreams." that is the us of identity.and finally, the us of responsibility. do you know something? my favorite phrase in all of politics, very american phrase, is: "we the people." why "we the people?" because it says that we all share collective responsibility for our collective future. and that's how things really are and should be.have you noticed how magical thinking has taken over our politics? so we say, all you've got to do is elect this strong leader and he or she will solve all our problems for us. believe me, that is magical thinking. and then we get the extremes: the far right, the far left, the extreme religious and the extreme anti-religious, the far right dreaming of a golden age that never was, the far left dreaming of a utopia that never will be and the religious and anti-religious equally convinced that all it takes is god or the absence of god to save us from ourselves. that, too, is magical thinking, because the only people who will save us from ourselves is we the people, all of us together. and when we do that, and when we move from the politics of me to the politics of all of us together, we rediscover those beautiful, counterintuitive truths: that a nation is strong when it cares for the weak, that it becomes rich when it cares for the poor, it becomes invulnerable when it cares about the vulnerable. that is what makes great nations. so here is my simple suggestion. it might just change your life, and it might just help to begin to change the world. do a search and replace operation on the text of your mind, and wherever you encounter the word "self," substitute the word "other." so instead of self-help, other-help; instead of self-esteem, other-esteem. and if you do that, you will begin to feel the power of what for me is one of the most moving sentences in all of religious literature. "though i walk through the valley of the shadow of death, i will fear no evil, for you are with me." we can face any future without fear so long as we know we will not face it alone.so for the sake of the future "you," together let us strengthen the future "us."thank you. <title = "Why journalists have an obligation to challenge power">
<tags = "['TED en Español', 'democracy', 'government', 'immigration', 'journalism', 'politics', 'social change', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Journalist, news anchor">
i'm a journalist, and i'm an immigrant. and these two conditions define me.i was born in mexico, but i've spent more than half my life reporting in the united states, a country which was itself created by immigrants. as a reporter and as a foreigner, i've learned that neutrality, silence and fear aren't the best options — not in journalism, nor in life. neutrality is often an excuse that we journalists use to hide from our true responsibility. what is that responsibility? it is to question and to challenge those in positions of power. that's what journalism is for.that's the beauty of journalism: to question and challenge the powerful. of course, we have the obligation to report reality as it is, not how we would like it to be. in that sense, i agree with the principle of objectivity: if a house is blue, i say that it's blue. if there are a million unemployed people, i say there are a million. but neutrality won't necessarily lead me to the truth. even if i'm unequivocally scrupulous, and i present both sides of a news item — the democratic and the republican, the liberal and the conservative, the government's and the opposition's — in the end, i have no guarantee, nor are any of us guaranteed that we'll know what's true and what's not true. life is much more complicated, and i believe journalism should reflect that very complexity.to be clear: i refuse to be a tape recorder. i didn't become a journalist to be a tape recorder. i know what you're going to say: no one uses tape recorders nowadays. in that case, i refuse to take out my cell phone and hit the record button and point it in front of me as if i were at a concert, like a fan at a concert. that is not true journalism. contrary to what many people think, journalists are making value judgments all the time, ethical and moral judgments. and we're always making decisions that are exceedingly personal and extraordinarily subjective.for example: what happens if you're called to cover a dictatorship, like augusto pinochet's regime in chile or fidel castro's in cuba? are you going to report only what the general and commander want, or will you confront them? what happens if you find out that in your country or in the country next door, students are disappearing and hidden graves are appearing, or that millions of dollars are disappearing from the budget and that ex-presidents are magically now multimillionaires? will you report only the official version? or what happens if you're assigned to cover the presidential elections of the primary superpower, and one of the candidates makes comments that are racist, sexist and xenophobic? that happened to me. and i want to tell you what i did, but first, let me explain where i'm coming from, so you can understand my reaction.i grew up in mexico city, the oldest of five brothers, and our family simply couldn't afford to pay for all of our college tuition. so i studied in the morning, and worked in the afternoon. eventually, i got the job i had always wanted: television reporter. it was a big opportunity. but as i was working on my third story, i ended up criticizing the president, and questioning the lack of democracy in mexico. in mexico, from 1929 to 2000, elections were always rigged; the incumbent president would hand-pick his successor. that's not true democracy. to me it seemed like a brilliant idea to expose the president, but to my boss — my boss didn't think it was such a great idea. at that time, the presidential office, los pinos, had issued a direct censor against the media. my boss, who, aside from being in charge of the show i worked for, was also in charge of a soccer team. i always suspected that he was more interested in goals than in the news. he censored my report. he asked me to change it, i said no, so he put another journalist on the story to write what i was supposed to say. i did not want to be a censored journalist. i don't know where i found the strength, but i wrote my letter of resignation. and so at 24 years of age — just 24 — i made the most difficult and most transcendental decision of my life. not only did i resign from television, but i had also decided to leave my country.i sold my car, a beat-up little red volkswagen, came up with some money and said goodbye to my family, to my friends, to my streets, to my favorite haunts — to my tacos — and i bought a one-way ticket to los angeles, california. and so i became one of the 250 million immigrants that exist in the world.ask any immigrant about the first day they arrived in their new country, and you'll find that they remember absolutely everything, like it was a movie with background music. in my case, i arrived in los angeles, the sun was setting, and everything i owned — a guitar, a suitcase and some documents — i could carry all of it with my two hands. that feeling of absolute freedom, i haven't experienced since. and i survived with what little i had. i obtained a student visa; i was studying. i ate a lot of lettuce and bread, because that's all i had. finally, in 1984, i landed my first job as a tv reporter in the united states.and the first thing i noticed was that in the us, my colleagues criticized — and mercilessly — then president ronald reagan, and absolutely nothing happened; no one censored them. and i thought: i love this country. and that's how it's been for more than 30 years: reporting with total freedom, and being treated as an equal despite being an immigrant — until, without warning, i was assigned to cover the recent us presidential election.on june 16, 2015, a candidate who would eventually become the president of the united states said that mexican immigrants were criminals, drug traffickers and rapists. and i knew that he was lying. i knew he was wrong for one very simple reason: i'm a mexican immigrant. and we're not like that. so i did what any other reporter would have done: i wrote him a letter by hand requesting an interview, and i sent it to his tower in new york.the next day i was at work, and i suddenly began to receive hundreds of calls and texts on my cell phone, some more insulting than others. i didn't know what was happening until my friend came into my office and said, "they published your cell number online." they actually did that. here's the letter they sent where they gave out my number. don't bother writing it down, ok? i already changed it. but i learned two things. the first one is that you should never, never, ever give your cell number to donald trump. the second lesson was that i needed to stop being neutral at that point. from then on, my mission as a journalist changed. i would confront the candidate and show that he was wrong, that what he said about immigrants in the us was not true.let me give you some figures. ninety-seven percent of all undocumented people in the united states are good people. less than three percent have committed a serious crime, or "felony," as they say in english. in comparison, six percent of us citizens have committed a serious crime. the conclusion is that undocumented immigrants behave much better than us citizens.based on that data, i made a plan. eight weeks after they published my cell number, i obtained a press pass for a press conference for the candidate gaining momentum in the polls. i decided to confront him in person. but ... things didn't turn out exactly as i had planned; watch:[donald trump press conference dubuque, iowa](video) jorge ramos: mr. trump, i have a question about immigration.donald trump: who's next? yes, please.jr: your immigration plan is full of empty promises.dt: excuse me, you weren't called. sit down. sit down!jr: i'm a reporter; as an immigrant and as a us citizen, i have the right to ask a question.dt: no you don't. jr: i have the right to ask —dt: go back to univision.jr: this is the question: you cannot deport 11 million people. you cannot build a 1900-mile wall. you cannot deny citizenship to children in this country.dt: sit down. jr: and with those ideas —dt: you weren't called.jr: i'm a reporter and i have — don't touch me, sir.guard 1: please don't disrupt. you're being disruptive.jr: i have the right to ask a question. g1: yes, in order. in turn, sir.guard 2: do you have your media credential?jr: i have the right —g2: where? let me see. jr: it's over there.man: whoever's coming out, stay out.g2: you've just got to wait your turn.man: you're very rude. it's not about you.jr: it's not about you — man: get out of my country!man: it's not about you.jr: i'm a us citizen, too.man: well ...whatever. no, univision. it's not about you.jr: it's not about you. it's about the united states. (applause ends)whenever i see that video, the first thing i always think is that hate is contagious. if you notice, after the candidate says, "go back to univision" — that's code; what he's telling me is, "get out of here." one member of his entourage, as if he had been given permission, said, "get out of my country," not knowing that i'm also a us citizen.after watching this video many times, i also think that in order to break free from neutrality — and for it to be a true break — one has to lose their fear, and then learn how to say, "no; i'm not going to be quiet. i'm not going to sit down. and i'm not going to leave." the word "no" — "no" is the most powerful word that exists in any language, and it always precedes any important change in our lives. and i think there's enormous dignity and it generates a great deal of respect to be able to step back and to push back and say, "no."elie wiesel — holocaust survivor, nobel peace prize recipient and who, unfortunately, we lost very recently — said some very wise words: "we must take a side. neutrality helps only the oppressor, never the victim." and he's completely right. we journalists are obligated to take sides in certain circumstances; in cases of racism, discrimination, corruption, lying to the public, dictatorships and human rights, we need to set aside neutrality and indifference.spanish has a great word to describe the stance that journalists should take. the word is "contrapoder [anti-establishment]." basically, we journalists should be on the opposite side from those in power. but if you're in bed with politicians, if you go to the baptism or wedding of the governor's son or if you want to be the president's buddy, how are you going to criticize them? when i'm assigned to interview a powerful or influential person, i always keep two things in mind: if i don't ask this difficult and uncomfortable question, no one else is going to; and that i'm never going to see this person again. so i'm not looking to make a good impression or to forge a connection. in the end, if i have to choose between being the president's friend or enemy, i always prefer to be their enemy.in closing: i know this is a difficult time to be an immigrant and a journalist, but now more than ever, we need journalists who are prepared, at any given moment, to set neutrality aside. personally, i feel like i've been preparing for this moment my whole life. when they censored me when i was 24, i learned that neutrality, fear and silence often make you an accomplice in crime, abuse and injustice. and being an accomplice to power is never good journalism.now, at 59 years old, i only hope to have a tiny bit of the courage and mental clarity i had at 24, and that way, never again remain quiet. thank you very much. thank you. <title = "What rivers can tell us about the earth's history">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'ancient world', 'climate change', 'environment', 'nature', 'rivers', 'science', 'water']">
<occupation = "Geoscientist">
all right, let's get up our picture of the earth. the earth is pretty awesome. i'm a geologist, so i get pretty psyched about this, but the earth is great. it's powerful, it's dynamic, it's constantly changing. it's a pretty exciting place to live. but i want to share with you guys today my perspective as a geologist in how understanding earth's past can help inform and guide decisions that we make today about how to sustainably live on earth's surface.so there's a lot of exciting things that go on on the surface of the earth. if we zoom in here a little bit, i want to talk to you guys a little bit about one of the things that happens. material get shuffled around earth's surface all the time, and one of the big thing that happens is material from high mountains gets eroded and transported and deposited in the sea. and this process is ongoing all the time, and it has huge effects on how the landscape works. so this example here in south india — we have some of the biggest mountains in the world, and you can see in this satellite photo rivers transporting material from those mountains out to the sea. you can think of these rivers like bulldozers. they're basically taking these mountains and pushing them down towards the sea.we'll give you guys an example here. so we zoom in a little bit. i want to talk to you guys specifically about a river. we can see these beautiful patterns that the rivers make as they're pushing material down to the sea, but these patterns aren't static. these rivers are wiggling and jumping around quite a bit, and it can have big impacts on our lives.so an example of this is this is the kosi river. so the kosi river has this nice c-shaped pathway, and it exits the big mountains of nepal carrying with it a ton of material, a lot of sediments that's being eroded from the high mountains, and it spreads out across india and moves this material. so we're going to zoom in to this area and i'm going to tell you a little bit about what happened with the kosi. it's an example of how dynamic these systems can be. so this is a satellite image from august of 2008, and this satellite image is colored so that vegetations or plants show up as green and water shows up as blue. so here again you can see that c-shaped pathway that this river takes as it exits nepal. and now this is monsoon season. august is monsoon season in this region of the world, and anyone that lives near a river is no stranger to flooding and the hazards and inconveniences at minimum that are associated with that. but something interesting happened in 2008, and this river moved in a way that's very different. it flooded in a way that's very different than it normally does. so the kosi river is flowing down here, but sometimes as these rivers are bulldozing sediment, they kind of get clogged, and these clogs can actually cause the rivers to shift their course dramatically. so this satellite image is from just two weeks later. here's the previous pathway, that c-shaped pathway, and you notice it's not blue anymore. but now what we have is this blue pathway that cuts down the middle of the field of view here. what happened is the kosi river jumped its banks, and for reference, the scale bar here is 40 miles. this river moved over 30 miles very abruptly. so this river got clogged and it jumped its banks. here's an image from about a week later, and you can see these are the previous pathways, and you can see this process of river-jumping continues as this river moves farther away from its major course.so you can imagine in landscapes like this, where rivers move around frequently, it's really important to understand when, where and how they're going to jump. but these kinds of processes also happen a lot closer to home as well. so in the united states, we have the mississippi river that drains most of the continental us. it pushes material from the rocky mountains and from the great plains. it drains it and moves it all the way across america and dumps it out in the gulf of mexico. so this is the course of the mississippi that we're familiar with today, but it didn't always flow in this direction. if we use the geologic record, we can reconstruct where it went in the past. so for example, this red area here is where we know the mississippi river flowed and deposited material about 4,600 years ago. then about 3,500 years ago it moved to follow the course outlined here in orange. and it kept moving and it keeps moving. so here's about 2,000 years ago, a thousand years ago, 700 years ago. and it was only as recently as 500 years ago that it occupied the pathway that we're familiar with today. so these processes are really important, and especially here, this delta area, where these river-jumping events in the mississippi are building land at the interface of the land and the sea. this is really valuable real estate, and deltas like this are some of the most densely populated areas on our planet. so understanding the dynamics of these landscapes, how they formed and how they will continue to change in the future is really important for the people that live there.so rivers also wiggle. these are sort of bigger jumps that we've been talking about. i want to show you guys some river wiggles here. so we're going to fly down to the amazon river basin, and here again we have a big river system that is draining and moving and plowing material from the andean mountains, transporting it across south america and dumping it out into the atlantic ocean. so if we zoom in here, you guys can see these nice, curvy river pathways. again, they're really beautiful, but again, they're not static. these rivers wiggle around. we can use satellite imagery over the last 30 or so years to actually monitor how these change. so take a minute and just watch any bend or curve in this river, and you'll see it doesn't stay in the same place for very long. it changes and evolves and warps its pattern. if you look in this area in particular, i want you guys to notice there's a sort of a loop in the river that gets completely cut off. it's almost like a whip cracking and snaps off the pathway of the river at a certain spot. so just for reference, again, in this location, that river changed its course over four miles over the course of a season or two.so the landscapes that we live in on earth, as this material is being eroded from the mountains and transported to the sea, are wiggling around all the time. they're changing all the time, and we need to be able to understand these processes so we can manage and live sustainably on these landscapes. but it's hard to do if the only information we have is what's going on today at earth's surface. right? we don't have a lot of observations. we only have 30 years' worth of satellite photos, for example. we need more observations to understand these processes more. and additionally, we need to know how these landscapes are going to respond to changing climate and to changing land use as we continue to occupy and modify earth's surface.so this is where the rocks come in. so as rivers flow, as they're bulldozing material from the mountains to the sea, sometimes bits of sand and clay and rock get stuck in the ground. and that stuff that gets stuck in the ground gets buried, and through time, we get big, thick accumulations of sediments that eventually turn into rocks. what this means is that we can go to places like this, where we see big, thick stacks of sedimentary rocks, and go back in time and see what the landscapes looked like in the past. we can do this to help reconstruct and understand how earth landscapes evolve. this is pretty convenient, too, because the earth has had sort of an epic history. right? so this video here is a reconstruction of paleogeography for just the first 600 million years of earth's history. so just a little bit of time here. so as the plates move around, we know climate has changed, sea level has changed, we have a lot of different types of landscapes and different types of environments that we can go back — if we have a time machine — we can go back and look at, and we do indeed have a time machine because we can look at the rocks that were deposited at these times.so i'm going to give you an example of this and take you to a special time in earth's past. about 55 million years ago, there was a really abrupt warming event, and what happened was a whole bunch of carbon dioxide was released into earth's atmosphere, and it caused a rapid and pretty extreme global warming event. and when i say warm, i mean pretty warm, that there were things like crocodiles and palm trees as far north as canada and as far south as patagonia. so this was a pretty warm time and it happened really abruptly. so what we can do is we can go back and find rocks that were deposited at this time and reconstruct how the landscape changed in response to this warming event.so here, yay, rocks. here's a pile of rocks. this yellow blob here, this is actually a fossil river, so just like this cartoon i showed, these are deposits that were laid down 55 million years ago. as geologists, we can go and look at these up close and reconstruct the landscape. so here's another example. the yellow blob here is a fossil river. here's another one above it. we can go and look in detail and make measurements and observations, and we can measure features. for example, the features i just highlighted there tell us that this particular river was probably about three feet deep. you could wade across this cute little stream if you were walking around 55 million years ago. the reddish stuff that's above and below those channels, those are ancient soil deposits. so we can look at those to tell us what lived and grew on the landscape and to understand how these rivers were interacting with their floodplains. so we can look in detail and reconstruct with some specificity how these rivers flowed and what the landscapes looked like. so when we do this for this particular place at this time, if we look what happened before this abrupt warming event, the rivers kind of carved their way down from the mountains to the sea, and they looked maybe similar to what i showed you in the amazon river basin. but right at the onset of this climate change event, the rivers change dramatically. all of a sudden they got much broader, and they started to slide back and forth across the landscape more readily. eventually, the rivers reverted back to a state that was more similar to what they would have looked like before this climate event, but it took a long, long time.so we can go back in earth's time and do these kinds of reconstructions and understand how earth's landscape has changed in response to a climate event like this or a land use event. so some of the ways that rivers change or the reasons that rivers change their pattern and their movements is because of things like with extra water falling on the land's surface when climate is hotter, we can move more sediment and erode more sediment, and that changes how rivers behave.so ultimately, as long as earth's surface is our home, we need to carefully manage the resources and risks associated with living in dynamic environments. and i think the only way we can really do that sustainably is if we include information about how landscapes evolved and behaved in earth's past.thank you. <title = "Why our screens make us less happy">
<tags = "['Addiction', 'computers', 'interface design', 'psychology', 'social media', 'software', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Psychologist">
so, a few years ago i heard an interesting rumor. apparently, the head of a large pet food company would go into the annual shareholder's meeting with can of dog food. and he would eat the can of dog food. and this was his way of convincing them that if it was good enough for him, it was good enough for their pets. this strategy is now known as "dogfooding," and it's a common strategy in the business world. it doesn't mean everyone goes in and eats dog food, but businesspeople will use their own products to demonstrate that they feel — that they're confident in them. now, this is a widespread practice, but i think what's really interesting is when you find exceptions to this rule, when you find cases of businesses or people in businesses who don't use their own products. turns out there's one industry where this happens in a common way, in a pretty regular way, and that is the screen-based tech industry.so, in 2010, steve jobs, when he was releasing the ipad, described the ipad as a device that was "extraordinary." "the best browsing experience you've ever had; way better than a laptop, way better than a smartphone. it's an incredible experience." a couple of months later, he was approached by a journalist from the new york times, and they had a long phone call. at the end of the call, the journalist threw in a question that seemed like a sort of softball. he said to him, "your kids must love the ipad." there's an obvious answer to this, but what jobs said really staggered the journalist. he was very surprised, because he said, "they haven't used it. we limit how much technology our kids use at home."this is a very common thing in the tech world. in fact, there's a school quite near silicon valley called the waldorf school of the peninsula, and they don't introduce screens until the eighth grade. what's really interesting about the school is that 75 percent of the kids who go there have parents who are high-level silicon valley tech execs. so when i heard about this, i thought it was interesting and surprising, and it pushed me to consider what screens were doing to me and to my family and the people i loved, and to people at large.so for the last five years, as a professor of business and psychology, i've been studying the effect of screens on our lives. and i want to start by just focusing on how much time they take from us, and then we can talk about what that time looks like. what i'm showing you here is the average 24-hour workday at three different points in history: 2007 — 10 years ago — 2015 and then data that i collected, actually, only last week. and a lot of things haven't changed all that much. we sleep roughly seven-and-a-half to eight hours a day; some people say that's declined slightly, but it hasn't changed much. we work eight-and-a-half to nine hours a day. we engage in survival activities — these are things like eating and bathing and looking after kids — about three hours a day.that leaves this white space. that's our personal time. that space is incredibly important to us. that's the space where we do things that make us individuals. that's where hobbies happen, where we have close relationships, where we really think about our lives, where we get creative, where we zoom back and try to work out whether our lives have been meaningful. we get some of that from work as well, but when people look back on their lives and wonder what their lives have been like at the end of their lives, you look at the last things they say — they are talking about those moments that happen in that white personal space. so it's sacred; it's important to us.now, what i'm going to do is show you how much of that space is taken up by screens across time. in 2007, this much. that was the year that apple introduced the first iphone. eight years later, this much. now, this much. that's how much time we spend of that free time in front of our screens. this yellow area, this thin sliver, is where the magic happens. that's where your humanity lives. and right now, it's in a very small box.so what do we do about this? well, the first question is: what does that red space look like? now, of course, screens are miraculous in a lot of ways. i live in new york, a lot of my family lives in australia, and i have a one-year-old son. the way i've been able to introduce them to him is with screens. i couldn't have done that 15 or 20 years ago in quite the same way. so there's a lot of good that comes from them.one thing you can do is ask yourself: what goes on during that time? how enriching are the apps that we're using? and some are enriching. if you stop people while they're using them and say, "tell us how you feel right now," they say they feel pretty good about these apps — those that focus on relaxation, exercise, weather, reading, education and health. they spend an average of nine minutes a day on each of these. these apps make them much less happy. about half the people, when you interrupt them and say, "how do you feel?" say they don't feel good about using them. what's interesting about these — dating, social networking, gaming, entertainment, news, web browsing — people spend 27 minutes a day on each of these. we're spending three times longer on the apps that don't make us happy. that doesn't seem very wise.one of the reasons we spend so much time on these apps that make us unhappy is they rob us of stopping cues. stopping cues were everywhere in the 20th century. they were baked into everything we did. a stopping cue is basically a signal that it's time to move on, to do something new, to do something different. and — think about newspapers; eventually you get to the end, you fold the newspaper away, you put it aside. the same with magazines, books — you get to the end of a chapter, prompts you to consider whether you want to continue. you watched a show on tv, eventually the show would end, and then you'd have a week until the next one came. there were stopping cues everywhere. but the way we consume media today is such that there are no stopping cues. the news feed just rolls on, and everything's bottomless: twitter, facebook, instagram, email, text messaging, the news. and when you do check all sorts of other sources, you can just keep going on and on and on.so, we can get a cue about what to do from western europe, where they seem to have a number of pretty good ideas in the workplace. here's one example. this is a dutch design firm. and what they've done is rigged the desks to the ceiling. and at 6pm every day, it doesn't matter who you're emailing or what you're doing, the desks rise to the ceiling. four days a week, the space turns into a yoga studio, one day a week, into a dance club. it's really up to you which ones you stick around for. but this is a great stopping rule, because it means at the end of the day, everything stops, there's no way to work. at daimler, the german car company, they've got another great strategy. when you go on vacation, instead of saying, "this person's on vacation, they'll get back to you eventually," they say, "this person's on vacation, so we've deleted your email. this person will never see the email you just sent." "you can email back in a couple of weeks, or you can email someone else." and so — you can imagine what that's like. you go on vacation, and you're actually on vacation. the people who work at this company feel that they actually get a break from work.but of course, that doesn't tell us much about what we should do at home in our own lives, so i want to make some suggestions. it's easy to say, between 5 and 6pm, i'm going to not use my phone. the problem is, 5 and 6pm looks different on different days. i think a far better strategy is to say, i do certain things every day, there are certain occasions that happen every day, like eating dinner. sometimes i'll be alone, sometimes with other people, sometimes in a restaurant, sometimes at home, but the rule that i've adopted is: i will never use my phone at the table. it's far away, as far away as possible. because we're really bad at resisting temptation. but when you have a stopping cue that, every time dinner begins, my phone goes far away, you avoid temptation all together.at first, it hurts. i had massive fomo. i struggled.but what happens is, you get used to it. you overcome the withdrawal the same way you would from a drug, and what happens is, life becomes more colorful, richer, more interesting — you have better conversations. you really connect with the people who are there with you. i think it's a fantastic strategy, and we know it works, because when people do this — and i've tracked a lot of people who have tried this — it expands. they feel so good about it, they start doing it for the first hour of the day in the morning. they start putting their phones on airplane mode on the weekend. that way, your phone remains a camera, but it's no longer a phone. it's a really powerful idea, and we know people feel much better about their lives when they do this.so what's the take home here? screens are miraculous; i've already said that, and i feel that it's true. but the way we use them is a lot like driving down a really fast, long road, and you're in a car where the accelerator is mashed to the floor, it's kind of hard to reach the brake pedal. you've got a choice. you can either glide by, past, say, the beautiful ocean scenes and take snaps out the window — that's the easy thing to do — or you can go out of your way to move the car to the side of the road, to push that brake pedal, to get out, take off your shoes and socks, take a couple of steps onto the sand, feel what the sand feels like under your feet, walk to the ocean, and let the ocean lap at your ankles. your life will be richer and more meaningful because you breathe in that experience, and because you've left your phone in the car.thank you. <title = "Can clouds buy us more time to solve climate change?">
<tags = "['Anthropocene', 'biosphere', 'climate change', 'environment', 'future', 'nature', 'science', 'water']">
<occupation = "Climate scientist">
i am a climate scientist, and i hate weather. i have spent too much time in california, and i strongly feel that weather should be optional. so i don't want to experience clouds, let alone study them. but clouds seem to follow me wherever i go.the thing is, clouds are a real challenge for climate science. we don't know how they're going to react as the planet heats up, and hidden in that uncertainty might be hope. maybe, just maybe, clouds could slow down global warming, and buy us a little bit more time to get our act together, which would be very convenient right now. i mean, even i could put up with a few more cloudy days if clouds saved the planet.now, we are sure about some things. carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, we're emitting a lot of it, and the planet is heating up. case closed. but i still go to work every day. it turns out that there is a lot that we don't understand about climate change. in particular, we haven't answered what seems to be a very fundamental question. we know it's going to get hot, but we don't know exactly how hot it's going to get. now, this is a really easy question to answer if one of you would like to give me a time machine. but i'm going to be honest with you: if i had a time machine, i would not be hanging out at this particular point in history. so in order to see the future, we have to rely on the output of computer simulations — climate models, like this one.now, in my line of work, i encounter many very charming people on the internet who like to tell me that climate models are all wrong. and i would just like to say: no kidding! seriously? i get paid to complain about climate models. but we don't want models to be perfect. we want them to be useful. i mean, think about it: a computer simulation that's able to exactly reproduce all of reality. that's not a climate model; that's "the matrix." so, models are not crystal balls. they're research tools, and the ways in which they're wrong can actually teach us a lot.for example: different climate models are largely able to capture the warming that we've seen so far. but fast-forward to the end of the century under a business-as-usual scenario, and climate models don't really agree anymore. yeah, they're all warming; that's just basic physics. but some of them project catastrophe — more than five times the warming we've seen already. and others are literally more chill.so why don't climate models agree on how warm it's going to get? well, to a large extent, it's because they don't agree on what clouds will do in the future. and that is because, just like me, computers hate clouds. computers hate clouds because they're simultaneously very large and very small. clouds are formed when microscopic water droplets or ice crystals coalesce around tiny particles. but at the same time, they cover two-thirds of the earth's surface. in order to really accurately model clouds, we'd need to track the behavior of every water droplet and dust grain in the entire atmosphere, and there's no computer powerful enough to do that. so instead, we have to make a trade-off: we can zoom in and get the details right, but have no idea what's going on worldwide; or, we could sacrifice realism at small scales in order to see the bigger picture. now, there's no one right answer, no perfect way to do this, and different climate models make different choices.now, it is unfortunate that computers struggle with clouds, because clouds are crucially important in regulating the temperature of the planet. in fact, if all the clouds went away, we would experience profound climate changes. but without clouds, would it be warmer or colder? the answer is both.so i'm going to be honest with you, i am not a cloud spotter. my favorite type of cloud is none. but even i know that clouds come in all shapes and sizes. low, thick clouds like these are really good at blocking out the sun and ruining your barbecue, and high, wispy clouds like these cirrus largely let that sunlight stream through. every sunny day is the same, but every cloudy day is cloudy in its own way. and it's this diversity that can make the global impact of clouds very hard to understand. so to see this global effect of clouds, it really helps to take a selfie.it will never cease to blow my mind that we can see our planet from outer space, but we can't see all of it. clouds are blocking the view. that's what they do. these low, thick clouds are extremely effective sunshades. they turn back about 20 percent of everything the sun sends us. that is a lot of wasted solar power. so, low clouds are powerful sunshades, making the planet cooler. but that's not the only effect of clouds. our planet has a temperature, and like anything with a temperature, it's giving off heat. we are radiating thermal energy away into space, and we can see this in the infrared. once again, clouds are blocking the view. that's because high clouds live in the upper reaches of the atmosphere, where it's very cold. and this means that they lose very little heat to space themselves. but at the same time, they block the heat coming up from the planet below. the earth is trying to cool itself off, and high clouds are getting in the way. the result is a very powerful greenhouse effect. so, clouds play this very large and dual role in the climate system. we've got low clouds that act like a sunshade, cooling the planet, and high clouds which act like a greenhouse, warming the planet.right now, these two effects — they don't cancel out. that sunshade — it's a little bit more powerful. so if we got rid of all the clouds tomorrow, which, for the record, i am not advocating, our planet would get warmer. so clearly, all of the clouds are not going away. but climate change is change. so we can ask: how will global warming change clouds? but remember, clouds are so important in regulating the earth's temperature, and they both warm and cool the planet. so even small changes to cloud cover could have profound consequences. so we might also ask: how will clouds change global warming?and that is where there might be space for hope. if global warming triggers cloud changes that make for a less powerful greenhouse or a more effective sunshade, then that would enhance the cooling power of clouds. it would act in opposition to global warming, and that's what's happening in those climate models that project relatively muted warming. but climate models struggle with clouds, and this uncertainty — it goes both ways. clouds could help us out with global warming. they could also make it worse.now, we know that climate change is happening because we can see it: rising temperatures, melting icecaps, shifts in rainfall patterns. and you might think that we could also see it in the clouds. but here's something else unfortunate: clouds are really hard to see. i see everybody from the pacific northwest is like, "i have some suggestions for you." and you guys, we have tried looking up. but in order to do climate science, we need to see all of the clouds, everywhere, for a very long time. and that's what makes it hard. now, nothing sees more clouds than a satellite — not even a british person. and fortunately, we do have satellite observations of clouds that, like me, date back to the 1980s. but these satellites were designed for weather, not climate. they weren't in it for the long haul. so to get that long-term trend information, we need to do climate science. we have to stitch together the output of multiple satellites with different viewing angles and orbits and carrying different camera equipment. and as a result, there are gaps in our knowledge. but even from this very cloudy picture, we're starting to get hints of a possible future.when we looked at the observations, one thing jumped out at us: the clouds are moving. as the planet's temperature increases, high clouds rise up. they move to the colder upper reaches of the atmosphere, and this means that even as the planet heats up, high clouds don't. they remain at roughly the same temperature. so they are not losing more heat to space. but at the same time, they're trapping more heat from the warming planet below. this intensifies the greenhouse effect. high clouds are making global warming worse.clouds are moving in other dimensions, too. the atmospheric circulation, that large-scale motion of air and water in the atmosphere, is changing, and clouds are going with it. on large scales, clouds seem to be moving from the tropics toward the poles. it's kind of like your grandparents in reverse. and this matters, because if your job is to block incoming sunlight, you are going to be much more effective in the tropics under that intense tropical sun than you are in higher latitudes. so if this keeps up, this will also make global warming worse. and what we have not found, despite years of looking, is any indication of the opposite. there is no observational evidence that clouds will substantially slow down global warming. the earth is not going to break its own fever.now, there are still uncertainties here. we don't know for sure what the future holds. but we are sending our kids there, and they are never coming back. i want them to be prepared for what they'll face, and that is why it is so important to keep our earth-observing satellites up there and to hire diverse and smart and talented people who do not hate clouds to improve the climate models.but uncertainty is not ignorance. we don't know everything, but we don't know nothing, and we know what carbon dioxide does. i started my career as an astrophysicist, so you can believe me when i say that this is the greatest place in the universe. other planets might have liquid water. on earth, we have whiskey. we are so lucky to live here, but let's not push our luck. i don't think that clouds will save the planet. i think that's probably up to us.thank you. <title = "Your brain hallucinates your conscious reality">
<tags = "['brain', 'cognitive science', 'humanity', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'science']">
<occupation = "Cognitive neuroscientist">
just over a year ago, for the third time in my life, i ceased to exist. i was having a small operation, and my brain was filling with anesthetic. i remember a sense of detachment and falling apart and a coldness. and then i was back, drowsy and disoriented, but definitely there. now, when you wake from a deep sleep, you might feel confused about the time or anxious about oversleeping, but there's always a basic sense of time having passed, of a continuity between then and now. coming round from anesthesia is very different. i could have been under for five minutes, five hours, five years or even 50 years. i simply wasn't there. it was total oblivion. anesthesia — it's a modern kind of magic. it turns people into objects, and then, we hope, back again into people. and in this process is one of the greatest remaining mysteries in science and philosophy.how does consciousness happen? somehow, within each of our brains, the combined activity of many billions of neurons, each one a tiny biological machine, is generating a conscious experience. and not just any conscious experience — your conscious experience right here and right now. how does this happen?answering this question is so important because consciousness for each of us is all there is. without it there's no world, there's no self, there's nothing at all. and when we suffer, we suffer consciously whether it's through mental illness or pain. and if we can experience joy and suffering, what about other animals? might they be conscious, too? do they also have a sense of self? and as computers get faster and smarter, maybe there will come a point, maybe not too far away, when my iphone develops a sense of its own existence.i actually think the prospects for a conscious ai are pretty remote. and i think this because my research is telling me that consciousness has less to do with pure intelligence and more to do with our nature as living and breathing organisms. consciousness and intelligence are very different things. you don't have to be smart to suffer, but you probably do have to be alive.in the story i'm going to tell you, our conscious experiences of the world around us, and of ourselves within it, are kinds of controlled hallucinations that happen with, through and because of our living bodies.now, you might have heard that we know nothing about how the brain and body give rise to consciousness. some people even say it's beyond the reach of science altogether. but in fact, the last 25 years have seen an explosion of scientific work in this area. if you come to my lab at the university of sussex, you'll find scientists from all different disciplines and sometimes even philosophers. all of us together trying to understand how consciousness happens and what happens when it goes wrong. and the strategy is very simple. i'd like you to think about consciousness in the way that we've come to think about life. at one time, people thought the property of being alive could not be explained by physics and chemistry — that life had to be more than just mechanism. but people no longer think that. as biologists got on with the job of explaining the properties of living systems in terms of physics and chemistry — things like metabolism, reproduction, homeostasis — the basic mystery of what life is started to fade away, and people didn't propose any more magical solutions, like a force of life or an élan vital. so as with life, so with consciousness. once we start explaining its properties in terms of things happening inside brains and bodies, the apparently insoluble mystery of what consciousness is should start to fade away. at least that's the plan.so let's get started. what are the properties of consciousness? what should a science of consciousness try to explain? well, for today i'd just like to think of consciousness in two different ways. there are experiences of the world around us, full of sights, sounds and smells, there's multisensory, panoramic, 3d, fully immersive inner movie. and then there's conscious self. the specific experience of being you or being me. the lead character in this inner movie, and probably the aspect of consciousness we all cling to most tightly. let's start with experiences of the world around us, and with the important idea of the brain as a prediction engine.imagine being a brain. you're locked inside a bony skull, trying to figure what's out there in the world. there's no lights inside the skull. there's no sound either. all you've got to go on is streams of electrical impulses which are only indirectly related to things in the world, whatever they may be. so perception — figuring out what's there — has to be a process of informed guesswork in which the brain combines these sensory signals with its prior expectations or beliefs about the way the world is to form its best guess of what caused those signals. the brain doesn't hear sound or see light. what we perceive is its best guess of what's out there in the world.let me give you a couple of examples of all this. you might have seen this illusion before, but i'd like you to think about it in a new way. if you look at those two patches, a and b, they should look to you to be very different shades of gray, right? but they are in fact exactly the same shade. and i can illustrate this. if i put up a second version of the image here and join the two patches with a gray-colored bar, you can see there's no difference. it's exactly the same shade of gray. and if you still don't believe me, i'll bring the bar across and join them up. it's a single colored block of gray, there's no difference at all. this isn't any kind of magic trick. it's the same shade of gray, but take it away again, and it looks different. so what's happening here is that the brain is using its prior expectations built deeply into the circuits of the visual cortex that a cast shadow dims the appearance of a surface, so that we see b as lighter than it really is.here's one more example, which shows just how quickly the brain can use new predictions to change what we consciously experience. have a listen to this.(distorted voice)sounded strange, right? have a listen again and see if you can get anything.(distorted voice)still strange. now listen to this.(recording) anil seth: i think brexit is a really terrible idea. which i do.so you heard some words there, right? now listen to the first sound again. i'm just going to replay it.(distorted voice)yeah? so you can now hear words there. once more for luck.(distorted voice)ok, so what's going on here? the remarkable thing is the sensory information coming into the brain hasn't changed at all. all that's changed is your brain's best guess of the causes of that sensory information. and that changes what you consciously hear. all this puts the brain basis of perception in a bit of a different light. instead of perception depending largely on signals coming into the brain from the outside world, it depends as much, if not more, on perceptual predictions flowing in the opposite direction. we don't just passively perceive the world, we actively generate it. the world we experience comes as much, if not more, from the inside out as from the outside in.let me give you one more example of perception as this active, constructive process. here we've combined immersive virtual reality with image processing to simulate the effects of overly strong perceptual predictions on experience. in this panoramic video, we've transformed the world — which is in this case sussex campus — into a psychedelic playground. we've processed the footage using an algorithm based on google's deep dream to simulate the effects of overly strong perceptual predictions. in this case, to see dogs. and you can see this is a very strange thing. when perceptual predictions are too strong, as they are here, the result looks very much like the kinds of hallucinations people might report in altered states, or perhaps even in psychosis.now, think about this for a minute. if hallucination is a kind of uncontrolled perception, then perception right here and right now is also a kind of hallucination, but a controlled hallucination in which the brain's predictions are being reigned in by sensory information from the world. in fact, we're all hallucinating all the time, including right now. it's just that when we agree about our hallucinations, we call that reality. now i'm going to tell you that your experience of being a self, the specific experience of being you, is also a controlled hallucination generated by the brain. this seems a very strange idea, right? yes, visual illusions might deceive my eyes, but how could i be deceived about what it means to be me? for most of us, the experience of being a person is so familiar, so unified and so continuous that it's difficult not to take it for granted. but we shouldn't take it for granted. there are in fact many different ways we experience being a self. there's the experience of having a body and of being a body. there are experiences of perceiving the world from a first person point of view. there are experiences of intending to do things and of being the cause of things that happen in the world. and there are experiences of being a continuous and distinctive person over time, built from a rich set of memories and social interactions.many experiments show, and psychiatrists and neurologists know very well, that these different ways in which we experience being a self can all come apart. what this means is the basic background experience of being a unified self is a rather fragile construction of the brain. another experience, which just like all others, requires explanation.so let's return to the bodily self. how does the brain generate the experience of being a body and of having a body? well, just the same principles apply. the brain makes its best guess about what is and what is not part of its body. and there's a beautiful experiment in neuroscience to illustrate this. and unlike most neuroscience experiments, this is one you can do at home. all you need is one of these. and a couple of paintbrushes.in the rubber hand illusion, a person's real hand is hidden from view, and that fake rubber hand is placed in front of them. then both hands are simultaneously stroked with a paintbrush while the person stares at the fake hand. now, for most people, after a while, this leads to the very uncanny sensation that the fake hand is in fact part of their body. and the idea is that the congruence between seeing touch and feeling touch on an object that looks like hand and is roughly where a hand should be, is enough evidence for the brain to make its best guess that the fake hand is in fact part of the body. so you can measure all kinds of clever things. you can measure skin conductance and startle responses, but there's no need. it's clear the guy in blue has assimilated the fake hand. this means that even experiences of what our body is is a kind of best guessing — a kind of controlled hallucination by the brain.there's one more thing. we don't just experience our bodies as objects in the world from the outside, we also experience them from within. we all experience the sense of being a body from the inside. and sensory signals coming from the inside of the body are continually telling the brain about the state of the internal organs, how the heart is doing, what the blood pressure is like, lots of things. this kind of perception, which we call interoception, is rather overlooked. but it's critically important because perception and regulation of the internal state of the body — well, that's what keeps us alive.here's another version of the rubber hand illusion. this is from our lab at sussex. and here, people see a virtual reality version of their hand, which flashes red and back either in time or out of time with their heartbeat. and when it's flashing in time with their heartbeat, people have a stronger sense that it's in fact part of their body. so experiences of having a body are deeply grounded in perceiving our bodies from within.there's one last thing i want to draw your attention to, which is that experiences of the body from the inside are very different from experiences of the world around us. when i look around me, the world seems full of objects — tables, chairs, rubber hands, people, you lot — even my own body in the world, i can perceive it as an object from the outside. but my experiences of the body from within, they're not like that at all. i don't perceive my kidneys here, my liver here, my spleen ... i don't know where my spleen is, but it's somewhere. i don't perceive my insides as objects. in fact, i don't experience them much at all unless they go wrong. and this is important, i think. perception of the internal state of the body isn't about figuring out what's there, it's about control and regulation — keeping the physiological variables within the tight bounds that are compatible with survival. when the brain uses predictions to figure out what's there, we perceive objects as the causes of sensations. when the brain uses predictions to control and regulate things, we experience how well or how badly that control is going.so our most basic experiences of being a self, of being an embodied organism, are deeply grounded in the biological mechanisms that keep us alive. and when we follow this idea all the way through, we can start to see that all of our conscious experiences, since they all depend on the same mechanisms of predictive perception, all stem from this basic drive to stay alive. we experience the world and ourselves with, through and because of our living bodies.let me bring things together step-by-step. what we consciously see depends on the brain's best guess of what's out there. our experienced world comes from the inside out, not just the outside in. the rubber hand illusion shows that this applies to our experiences of what is and what is not our body. and these self-related predictions depend critically on sensory signals coming from deep inside the body. and finally, experiences of being an embodied self are more about control and regulation than figuring out what's there. so our experiences of the world around us and ourselves within it — well, they're kinds of controlled hallucinations that have been shaped over millions of years of evolution to keep us alive in worlds full of danger and opportunity. we predict ourselves into existence.now, i leave you with three implications of all this. first, just as we can misperceive the world, we can misperceive ourselves when the mechanisms of prediction go wrong. understanding this opens many new opportunities in psychiatry and neurology, because we can finally get at the mechanisms rather than just treating the symptoms in conditions like depression and schizophrenia.second: what it means to be me cannot be reduced to or uploaded to a software program running on a robot, however smart or sophisticated. we are biological, flesh-and-blood animals whose conscious experiences are shaped at all levels by the biological mechanisms that keep us alive. just making computers smarter is not going to make them sentient.finally, our own individual inner universe, our way of being conscious, is just one possible way of being conscious. and even human consciousness generally — it's just a tiny region in a vast space of possible consciousnesses. our individual self and worlds are unique to each of us, but they're all grounded in biological mechanisms shared with many other living creatures.now, these are fundamental changes in how we understand ourselves, but i think they should be celebrated, because as so often in science, from copernicus — we're not at the center of the universe — to darwin — we're related to all other creatures — to the present day. with a greater sense of understanding comes a greater sense of wonder, and a greater realization that we are part of and not apart from the rest of nature. and ... when the end of consciousness comes, there's nothing to be afraid of. nothing at all.thank you. <title = "The human insights missing from big data">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'algorithm', 'behavioral economics', 'business', 'data', 'decision-making']">
<occupation = "Technology ethnographer">
in ancient greece, when anyone from slaves to soldiers, poets and politicians, needed to make a big decision on life's most important questions, like, "should i get married?" or "should we embark on this voyage?" or "should our army advance into this territory?" they all consulted the oracle.so this is how it worked: you would bring her a question and you would get on your knees, and then she would go into this trance. it would take a couple of days, and then eventually she would come out of it, giving you her predictions as your answer.from the oracle bones of ancient china to ancient greece to mayan calendars, people have craved for prophecy in order to find out what's going to happen next. and that's because we all want to make the right decision. we don't want to miss something. the future is scary, so it's much nicer knowing that we can make a decision with some assurance of the outcome.well, we have a new oracle, and it's name is big data, or we call it "watson" or "deep learning" or "neural net." and these are the kinds of questions we ask of our oracle now, like, "what's the most efficient way to ship these phones from china to sweden?" or, "what are the odds of my child being born with a genetic disorder?" or, "what are the sales volume we can predict for this product?"i have a dog. her name is elle, and she hates the rain. and i have tried everything to untrain her. but because i have failed at this, i also have to consult an oracle, called dark sky, every time before we go on a walk, for very accurate weather predictions in the next 10 minutes. she's so sweet. so because of all of this, our oracle is a $122 billion industry.now, despite the size of this industry, the returns are surprisingly low. investing in big data is easy, but using it is hard. over 73 percent of big data projects aren't even profitable, and i have executives coming up to me saying, "we're experiencing the same thing. we invested in some big data system, and our employees aren't making better decisions. and they're certainly not coming up with more breakthrough ideas."so this is all really interesting to me, because i'm a technology ethnographer. i study and i advise companies on the patterns of how people use technology, and one of my interest areas is data. so why is having more data not helping us make better decisions, especially for companies who have all these resources to invest in these big data systems? why isn't it getting any easier for them?so, i've witnessed the struggle firsthand. in 2009, i started a research position with nokia. and at the time, nokia was one of the largest cell phone companies in the world, dominating emerging markets like china, mexico and india — all places where i had done a lot of research on how low-income people use technology. and i spent a lot of extra time in china getting to know the informal economy. so i did things like working as a street vendor selling dumplings to construction workers. or i did fieldwork, spending nights and days in internet cafés, hanging out with chinese youth, so i could understand how they were using games and mobile phones and using it between moving from the rural areas to the cities.through all of this qualitative evidence that i was gathering, i was starting to see so clearly that a big change was about to happen among low-income chinese people. even though they were surrounded by advertisements for luxury products like fancy toilets — who wouldn't want one? — and apartments and cars, through my conversations with them, i found out that the ads the actually enticed them the most were the ones for iphones, promising them this entry into this high-tech life. and even when i was living with them in urban slums like this one, i saw people investing over half of their monthly income into buying a phone, and increasingly, they were "shanzhai," which are affordable knock-offs of iphones and other brands. they're very usable. does the job.and after years of living with migrants and working with them and just really doing everything that they were doing, i started piecing all these data points together — from the things that seem random, like me selling dumplings, to the things that were more obvious, like tracking how much they were spending on their cell phone bills. and i was able to create this much more holistic picture of what was happening. and that's when i started to realize that even the poorest in china would want a smartphone, and that they would do almost anything to get their hands on one.you have to keep in mind, iphones had just come out, it was 2009, so this was, like, eight years ago, and androids had just started looking like iphones. and a lot of very smart and realistic people said, "those smartphones — that's just a fad. who wants to carry around these heavy things where batteries drain quickly and they break every time you drop them?" but i had a lot of data, and i was very confident about my insights, so i was very excited to share them with nokia.but nokia was not convinced, because it wasn't big data. they said, "we have millions of data points, and we don't see any indicators of anyone wanting to buy a smartphone, and your data set of 100, as diverse as it is, is too weak for us to even take seriously." and i said, "nokia, you're right. of course you wouldn't see this, because you're sending out surveys assuming that people don't know what a smartphone is, so of course you're not going to get any data back about people wanting to buy a smartphone in two years. your surveys, your methods have been designed to optimize an existing business model, and i'm looking at these emergent human dynamics that haven't happened yet. we're looking outside of market dynamics so that we can get ahead of it." well, you know what happened to nokia? their business fell off a cliff. this — this is the cost of missing something. it was unfathomable.but nokia's not alone. i see organizations throwing out data all the time because it didn't come from a quant model or it doesn't fit in one. but it's not big data's fault. it's the way we use big data; it's our responsibility. big data's reputation for success comes from quantifying very specific environments, like electricity power grids or delivery logistics or genetic code, when we're quantifying in systems that are more or less contained.but not all systems are as neatly contained. when you're quantifying and systems are more dynamic, especially systems that involve human beings, forces are complex and unpredictable, and these are things that we don't know how to model so well. once you predict something about human behavior, new factors emerge, because conditions are constantly changing. that's why it's a never-ending cycle. you think you know something, and then something unknown enters the picture. and that's why just relying on big data alone increases the chance that we'll miss something, while giving us this illusion that we already know everything.and what makes it really hard to see this paradox and even wrap our brains around it is that we have this thing that i call the quantification bias, which is the unconscious belief of valuing the measurable over the immeasurable. and we often experience this at our work. maybe we work alongside colleagues who are like this, or even our whole entire company may be like this, where people become so fixated on that number, that they can't see anything outside of it, even when you present them evidence right in front of their face. and this is a very appealing message, because there's nothing wrong with quantifying; it's actually very satisfying. i get a great sense of comfort from looking at an excel spreadsheet, even very simple ones. it's just kind of like, "yes! the formula worked. it's all ok. everything is under control."but the problem is that quantifying is addictive. and when we forget that and when we don't have something to kind of keep that in check, it's very easy to just throw out data because it can't be expressed as a numerical value. it's very easy just to slip into silver-bullet thinking, as if some simple solution existed. because this is a great moment of danger for any organization, because oftentimes, the future we need to predict — it isn't in that haystack, but it's that tornado that's bearing down on us outside of the barn. there is no greater risk than being blind to the unknown. it can cause you to make the wrong decisions. it can cause you to miss something big.but we don't have to go down this path. it turns out that the oracle of ancient greece holds the secret key that shows us the path forward. now, recent geological research has shown that the temple of apollo, where the most famous oracle sat, was actually built over two earthquake faults. and these faults would release these petrochemical fumes from underneath the earth's crust, and the oracle literally sat right above these faults, inhaling enormous amounts of ethylene gas, these fissures. it's true. it's all true, and that's what made her babble and hallucinate and go into this trance-like state. she was high as a kite! so how did anyone — how did anyone get any useful advice out of her in this state? well, you see those people surrounding the oracle? you see those people holding her up, because she's, like, a little woozy? and you see that guy on your left-hand side holding the orange notebook? well, those were the temple guides, and they worked hand in hand with the oracle. when inquisitors would come and get on their knees, that's when the temple guides would get to work, because after they asked her questions, they would observe their emotional state, and then they would ask them follow-up questions, like, "why do you want to know this prophecy? who are you? what are you going to do with this information?" and then the temple guides would take this more ethnographic, this more qualitative information, and interpret the oracle's babblings. so the oracle didn't stand alone, and neither should our big data systems.now to be clear, i'm not saying that big data systems are huffing ethylene gas, or that they're even giving invalid predictions. the total opposite. but what i am saying is that in the same way that the oracle needed her temple guides, our big data systems need them, too. they need people like ethnographers and user researchers who can gather what i call thick data. this is precious data from humans, like stories, emotions and interactions that cannot be quantified. it's the kind of data that i collected for nokia that comes in in the form of a very small sample size, but delivers incredible depth of meaning.and what makes it so thick and meaty is the experience of understanding the human narrative. and that's what helps to see what's missing in our models. thick data grounds our business questions in human questions, and that's why integrating big and thick data forms a more complete picture. big data is able to offer insights at scale and leverage the best of machine intelligence, whereas thick data can help us rescue the context loss that comes from making big data usable, and leverage the best of human intelligence. and when you actually integrate the two, that's when things get really fun, because then you're no longer just working with data you've already collected. you get to also work with data that hasn't been collected. you get to ask questions about why: why is this happening?now, when netflix did this, they unlocked a whole new way to transform their business. netflix is known for their really great recommendation algorithm, and they had this $1 million prize for anyone who could improve it. and there were winners. but netflix discovered the improvements were only incremental. so to really find out what was going on, they hired an ethnographer, grant mccracken, to gather thick data insights. and what he discovered was something that they hadn't seen initially in the quantitative data. he discovered that people loved to binge-watch. in fact, people didn't even feel guilty about it. they enjoyed it. so netflix was like, "oh. this is a new insight." so they went to their data science team, and they were able to scale this big data insight in with their quantitative data. and once they verified it and validated it, netflix decided to do something very simple but impactful. they said, instead of offering the same show from different genres or more of the different shows from similar users, we'll just offer more of the same show. we'll make it easier for you to binge-watch. and they didn't stop there. they did all these things to redesign their entire viewer experience, to really encourage binge-watching. it's why people and friends disappear for whole weekends at a time, catching up on shows like "master of none." by integrating big data and thick data, they not only improved their business, but they transformed how we consume media. and now their stocks are projected to double in the next few years.but this isn't just about watching more videos or selling more smartphones. for some, integrating thick data insights into the algorithm could mean life or death, especially for the marginalized. all around the country, police departments are using big data for predictive policing, to set bond amounts and sentencing recommendations in ways that reinforce existing biases. nsa's skynet machine learning algorithm has possibly aided in the deaths of thousands of civilians in pakistan from misreading cellular device metadata. as all of our lives become more automated, from automobiles to health insurance or to employment, it is likely that all of us will be impacted by the quantification bias.now, the good news is that we've come a long way from huffing ethylene gas to make predictions. we have better tools, so let's just use them better. let's integrate the big data with the thick data. let's bring our temple guides with the oracles, and whether this work happens in companies or nonprofits or government or even in the software, all of it matters, because that means we're collectively committed to making better data, better algorithms, better outputs and better decisions. this is how we'll avoid missing that something. <title = "Hamilton vs. Madison and the birth of American partisanship">
<tags = "['United States', 'government', 'history', 'politics']">
<occupation = "Constitutional law scholar">
if you've been thinking about us politics and trying to make sense of it for the last year or so, you might have hit on something like the following three propositions: one, us partisanship has never been so bad before; two, for the first time, it's geographically spatialized — we're divided between the coasts, which want to look outwards, and the center of the country, which wants to look inwards; and third, there's nothing we can do about it.i'm here to today to say that all three of these propositions, all of which sound reasonable, are not true. in fact, our us partisanship goes all the way back to the very beginning of the republic. it was geographically spatialized in almost eerily the same way that it is today, and it often has been throughout us history. and last, and by far most importantly, we actually have an extraordinary mechanism that's designed to help us manage factional disagreement and partisanship. that technology is the constitution. and this is an evolving, subtly, supplely designed entity that has the specific purpose of teaching us how to manage factional disagreement where it's possible to do that, and giving us techniques for overcoming that disagreement when that's possible.now, in order to tell you the story, i want to go back to a pivotal moment in us history, and that is the moment when factional disagreement and partisanship was born. there actually was a birth moment — a moment in us history when partisanship snapped into place. the person who's at the core of that story is james madison. and at the moment that this began, james madison was riding high. he himself was the einstein of not only the us constitution, but of constitutional thought more globally, and, to give him his due, he knew it. in a period of time of just three years, from 1785 to 1788, he had conceived, theorized, designed, passed and gotten ratified the us constitution.and just to give you some sense of the enormity of what that accomplishment actually was, although madison couldn't have known it at the time, today that same constitutional technology that he invented is still in use not only in the us, but, 230 years later, in places like canada, india, south africa, brazil. so in an extraordinary range of contexts all over the world, this technology is still the dominant, most used, most effective technology to manage governance.in that moment, madison believed that, having solved this problem, the country would run smoothly, and that he had designed a technology that would minimize the results of factions so there would be no political parties. remarkably, he thought he had designed a constitution that was against political parties and would make them unnecessary.he had gotten an enormous degree of help in the final marketing phase of his constitutional project from a man you may have heard of, called alexander hamilton. now, hamilton was everything madison was not. he was passionate, where madison was restrained. he was pansexual, where madison didn't speak to a woman expect for once until he was 42 years old, and then married dolley and lived happily ever after for 40 years. to put it bluntly, hamilton's the kind of person about whom you would write a hip-hop musical — and madison is the kind of person about whom you would not write a hip-hop musical. or indeed, a musical of any kind at all.but together, they had become a rather unlikely pairing, and they had produced the federalist papers, which offered a justification and, as i mentioned, a marketing plan for the constitution, which had been wildly effective and wildly successful.once the new government was in place, hamilton became secretary of the treasury, and he had a very specific idea in mind. and that was to do for financial institutions and infrastructure exactly what madison had done for constitutions. again, his contemporaries all knew it. one of them told madison, who can't have liked it very much, that hamilton was the newton of infrastructure. the idea was pretty straightforward. hamilton would give the united states a national bank, a permanent national debt — he said it would be "immortal," his phrase — and a manufacturing policy that would enable trade and manufacturing rather than agriculture, which was where the country's primary wealth had historically been.madison went utterly ballistic. and in this pivotal, critical decision, instead of just telling the world that his old friend hamilton was wrong and was adopting the wrong policies, he actually began to argue that hamilton's ideas were unconstitutional — that they violated the very nature of the constitution that the two of them had drafted together. hamilton responded the way you would expect. he declared madison to be his "personal and political enemy" — these are his words.so these two founders who had been such close friends and such close allies and such partners, then began to produce enmity. and they did it in the good, old-fashioned way. first, they founded political parties. madison created a party originally called the democratic republican party — "republican" for short — and hamilton created a party called the federalist party. those two parties adopted positions on national politics that were extreme and exaggerated. to give you a clear example: madison, who had always believed that the country would have some manufacturing and some trade and some agriculture, began attacking hamilton as a kind of tool of the financial markets whom hamilton himself intended to put in charge of the country. that was an overstatement, but it was something madison came to believe.he also attacked city life, and he said that the coasts were corrupt, and what people needed to do was to look inwards to the center of the country, to farmers, who were the essence of republican virtue, and they should go back to the values that had made american great, specifically the values of the revolution, and those were the values of low taxes, agriculture and less trade. hamilton responded to this by saying that madison was naïve, that he was childish, and that his goal was to turn the united states into a primitive autarchy, self-reliant and completely ineffectual on the global scale. they both meant it, and there was some truth to each of their claims, because each side was grossly exaggerating the views of the other in order to fight their war. they founded newspapers, and so for the first time in us history, the news that people received came entirely through the lens of either the republican or the federalist party.how does this end? well, as it turned out, the constitution did its work. but it did its work in surprising ways that madison himself had not fully anticipated. first, there was a series of elections. and the first two times out of the box, the federalists destroyed the republicans. madison was astonished. of course, he blamed the press. and in a rather innovative view — madison never failed to innovate when he thought about anything — he said the reason that the press was so pro-federalist is that the advertisers were all federalists, because they were traders on the coasts who got their capital from britain, which federalism was in bed with. that was his initial explanation. but despite the fact that the federalists, once in power, actually enacted laws that criminalized criticism of the government — that happened in the united states — nevertheless, the republicans fought back, and madison began to emphasize the freedom of speech, which he had built into the bill of rights, and the capacity of civil society to organize. and sure enough, nationally, small local groups — they were called democratic-republican societies — began to form and protest against federalist-dominated hegemony. eventually, the republicans managed to win a national election — that was in 1800. madison became the secretary of state, his friend and mentor jefferson became president, and they actually, over time, managed to put the federalists completely out of business. that was their goal.now, why did that happen? it happened because in the structure of the constitution were several features that actually managed faction the way there were supposed to do in the first place. what were those? one — most important of all — the freedom of speech. this was an innovative idea at the time. namely, that if you were out of power, you could still say that the government was terrible.two, civil society organization. the capacity to put together private groups, individuals, political parties and others who would organize to try to bring about fundamental change. perhaps most significantly was the separation of powers — an extraordinary component of the constitution. the thing about the separation of powers is that it did then and it does now, drive governance to the center. you can get elected to office in the united states with help from the periphery, right or left. it turns out, you actually can't govern unless you bring on board the center. there are midterm elections that come incredibly fast after a presidency begins. those drive presidents towards the center.there's a structure in which the president, in fact, does not rule or even govern, but can only propose laws which other people have to agree with — another feature that tends to drive presidents who actually want to get things done to the center. and a glance at the newspapers today will reveal to you that these principles are still completely in operation. no matter how a president gets elected, the president cannot get anything done unless the president first of all follows the rules of the constitution, because if not, the courts will stand up, as indeed has sometimes occurred, not only recently, but in the past, in us history. and furthermore, the president needs people, elected officials who know they need to win election from centrist voters, also to back his or her policies in order to pass laws. without it, nothing much happens.the takeaway of this brief excursus into the history of partisanship, then, is the following: partisanship is real; it's profound; it's extraordinarily powerful, and it's terribly upsetting. but the design of the constitution is greater than partisanship. it enables us to manage partisanship when that's possible, and it enables us actually to overcome partisan division and produce compromise, when and only when that is possible. a technology like that is a technology that worked for the founders, it worked for their grandchildren, it didn't work at the moment of the civil war, but then it started working again. and it worked for our grandparents, our parents, and it's going to work for us. so what you should do is really simple. stand up for what you believe in, support the organizations that you care about, speak out on the issues that matter to you, get involved, make change, express you opinion, and do it with respect and knowledge and confidence that it's only by working together that the constitutional technology can do the job that it is designed to do.stand up for what you believe, but take a deep breath while you do it. it's going to be ok.thanks. <title = "How I fail at being disabled">
<tags = "['Blindness', 'TED Residency', 'disability', 'failure', 'identity', 'personal growth']">
<occupation = "Business executive, entrepreneur">
i'd like to introduce you to my mom. i'm guessing that's not what you expected, and it's not what i expected either, and thank goodness i realized that an asian man was not my mom before i hugged him, because that would have been so awkward.recognizing people isn't one of my strengths due to a genetic visual impairment that has no correction or cure. as a result, i am legally blind, though i prefer "partially sighted" because it's more optimistic. and i'm entitled to the label "disabled."i hate the word disabled when it's used to describe people. it detonates a mindset of less than that utterly disregards capacity, ability, potential, instead prioritizing brokenness and lack.the perspective can be overt. what can't he do for himself that i'm going to have to do for him? she'll probably need some accommodation that no other employee at this business needs. sometimes, the hidden bias is so sweetly conveyed. "wow, susan, look at everything you've done in your career and your life. how did you do all of that and be visually impaired?" i fail at being disabled. so in the spirit of incentivizing the rampant failure of people all over the world and enticing the so-called normal to just give it a rest already, here are five tips to fail at being disabled.tip one: know your superpowers. the best team i ever led in my career was based on superpowers, and we even gave ourselves fancy-pantsy titles like "the pillar of masterly acumen." "the biscuit butterer." "the voice of reason."because we relied on our strengths, our best strengths, we achieved tremendous outcomes. the trait that prevents me from recognizing my mom allows me to smoothly adapt, to quickly absorb and accurately process an exhausting volume of cues, tease out what's important, determine multiple processes or potentials for any situation that i'm in, and then select the one that makes the most sense, all in a matter of seconds. i see what other people do not. some people think that's a superpower, but my real superpowers are ricocheting off of glass walls — and letting my friends walk around with kale in their teeth. it's true. don't have lunch with me, or dinner.tip two: be supremely skilled, supremely skilled at getting it wrong. it is important to be as equally confident in your superpowers as you are in you fubars. that's "effed up beyond all recognition" for you millennials. here's a good example. it is not a great idea to say, "don't worry, everything in here is too small for me to see" when you accidentally walk into the men's room — at one of the world's largest sporting arenas — or anywhere. i really wish that one wasn't true. i'm serious. it is better to just walk out and let them think you're drunk. tip three: know that everyone is disabled in some way, like when you have a cold and you can't smell and you realize that the milk that you splashed in your coffee was sour only after you've tasted it. very recently, a woman walked up to me frantic. she could not find the bakery she was looking for. as i motioned in the direction i thought she should go, saying, "there are no stores on this side of the street so your best bet is to cross —""oh my goodness," she interrupted. "there it is. all i needed was another set of eyes." i just let her have it. i would have said that, you know, being logical and paying attention and staying calm would have done the trick, but who am i?tip four: point out the disability in others. this one is best reserved — very important note — this one is best reserved for people you know well, because random strangers typically don't appreciate teachable moments. a few years ago, my parents and i went to see the rockettes, radio city's high-kicking dancers. i leaned over to my dad."the two rockettes on the left aren't kicking in a straight line.""yes, they are.""no, they're not.""yes, they are, and how do you know? you can't see."but i know what a straight line looks like. i had snapped a picture during our back and forth and presented him the evidence that proved i was right. he looked at the picture. i leaned in further."who's disabled now?"tip five: pursue audacious goals. flip expectation upside down and shove limitation off a cliff to meet its demise. there is a college football linebacker who blitzes, tackles, recovers fumbles while having one hand. there is a teacher who successfully transfers knowledge and inspires countless students while living with down syndrome. and for me, on my long list, to cycle from kathmandu, nepal, to darjeeling, india on the backseat of a bicycle built for two. it will be an exciting 620-mile adventure, and i'm sure i will have the blurry photos to show for it. oh, before we go on, i forgot to introduce you to my mom. i need to do that. and here she is, as she would appear to me if i were looking through a crowd of people looking for her. or is that an asian man?thank you. <title = "How cohousing can make us happier (and live longer)">
<tags = "['architecture', 'cities', 'community', 'design', 'society', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Architect">
loneliness. all of us in this room will experience loneliness at some point in our lives. loneliness is not a function of being alone, but rather, a function of how socially connected you are to those around you. there could be somebody in this room right now surrounded by a thousand people experiencing loneliness. and while loneliness can be attributed to many things, as an architect, i'm going to tell you today how loneliness can be the result of our built environments — the very homes we choose to live in.let's take a look at this house. it's a nice house. there's a big yard, picket fence, two-car garage. and the home might be in a neighborhood like this. and for many people around the globe, this home, this neighborhood — it's a dream. and yet the danger of achieving this dream is a false sense of connection and an increase in social isolation.i know, i can hear you now, there's somebody in the room screaming at me inside their head, "that's my house, and that's my neighborhood, and i know everyone on my block!" to which i would answer, "terrific!" and i wish there were more people like you, because i'd wager to guess there's more people in the room living in a similar situation that might not know their neighbors. they might recognize them and say hello, but under their breath, they're asking their spouse, "what was their name again?" so they can ask a question by name to signify they know them.social media also contributes to this false sense of connection. this image is probably all too familiar. you're standing in the elevator, sitting in a cafe, and you look around, and everyone's on their phone. you're not texting or checking facebook, but everyone else is, and maybe, like me, you've been in a situation where you've made eye contact, smiled and said hello, and have that person yank out their earbuds and say, "i'm sorry, what did you say?" i find this incredibly isolating.the concept i'd like to share with you today is an antidote to isolation. it's not a new concept. in fact, it's an age-old way of living, and it still exists in many non-european cultures around the world. and about 50 years ago, the danes decided to make up a new name, and since then, tens of thousands of danish people have been living in this connected way. and it's being pursued more widely around the globe as people are seeking community. this concept is cohousing.cohousing is an intentional neighborhood where people know each other and look after one another. in cohousing, you have your own home, but you also share significant spaces, both indoors and out. before i show you some pictures of cohousing, i'd like to first introduce you to my friends sheila and spencer. when i first met sheila and spencer, they were just entering their 60s, and spencer was looking ahead at the end of a long career in elementary education. and he really disliked the idea that he might not have children in his life upon retirement. they're now my neighbors. we live in a cohousing community that i not only designed, but developed and have my architecture practice in. this community is very intentional about our social interactions.so let me take you on a tour. from the outside, we look like any other small apartment building. in fact, we look identical to the one next door, except that we're bright yellow. inside, the homes are fairly conventional. we all have living rooms and kitchens, bedrooms and baths, and there are nine of these homes around a central courtyard. this one's mine, and this one is spencer and sheila's. the thing that makes this building uniquely cohousing are not the homes, but rather, what happens here — the social interactions that happen in and around that central courtyard. when i look across the courtyard, i look forward to see spencer and sheila. in fact, every morning, this is what i see, spencer waving at me furiously as we're making our breakfasts.from our homes, we look down into the courtyard, and depending on the time of year, we see this: kids and grownups in various combinations playing and hanging out with each other. there's a lot of giggling and chatter. there's a lot of hula-hooping. and every now and then, "hey, quit hitting me!" or a cry from one of the kids. these are the sounds of our daily lives, and the sounds of social connectedness. at the bottom of the courtyard, there are a set of double doors, and those lead into the common house.i consider the common house the secret sauce of cohousing. it's the secret sauce because it's the place where the social interactions and community life begin, and from there, it radiates out through the rest of the community. inside our common house, we have a large dining room to seat all 28 of us and our guests, and we dine together three times a week. in support of those meals, we have a large kitchen so that we can take turns cooking for each other in teams of three. so that means, with 17 adults, i lead cook once every six weeks. two other times, i show up and help my team with the preparation and cleanup. and all those other nights, i just show up. i have dinner, talk with my neighbors, and i go home, having been fed a delicious meal by someone who cares about my vegetarian preferences.our nine families have intentionally chosen an alternative way of living. instead of pursuing the american dream, where we might have been isolated in our single-family homes, we instead chose cohousing, so that we can increase our social connections. and that's how cohousing starts: with a shared intention to live collaboratively. and intention is the single most important characteristic that differentiates cohousing from any other housing model. and while intention is difficult to see or even show, i'm an architect, and i can't help but show you more pictures.so here are a few examples to illustrate how intention has been expressed in some of the communities i've visited. through the careful selection of furniture, lighting and acoustic materials to support eating together; in the careful visual location and visual access to kids' play areas around and inside the common house; in the consideration of scale and distribution of social gathering nodes in and around the community to support our daily lives, all of these spaces help contribute to and elevate the sense of communitas in each community.what was that word? "communitas." communitas is a fancy social science way of saying "spirit of community." and in visiting over 80 different communities, my measure of communitas became: how frequently did residents eat together? while it's completely up to each group how frequently they have common meals, i know some that have eaten together every single night for the past 40 years. i know others that have an occasional potluck once or twice a month. and from my observations, i can tell you, those that eat together more frequently, exhibit higher levels of communitas. it turns out, when you eat together, you start planning more activities together. when you eat together, you share more things. you start to watch each other's kids. you lend our your power tools. you borrow each other's cars.and despite all this, as my daughter loves to say, everything is not rainbows and unicorns in cohousing, and i'm not best friends with every single person in my community. we even have differences and conflicts. but living in cohousing, we're intentional about our relationships. we're motivated to resolve our differences. we follow up, we check in, we speak our personal truths and, when appropriate, we apologize.skeptics will say that cohousing is only interesting or attractive to a very small group of people. and i'll agree with that. if you look at western cultures around the globe, those living in cohousing are just a fractional percent. but that needs to change, because our very lives depend upon it.in 2015, brigham young university completed a study that showed a significant increase risk of premature death in those who were living in isolation. the us surgeon general has declared isolation to be a public health epidemic. and this epidemic is not restricted to the us alone.so when i said earlier that cohousing is an antidote to isolation, what i should have said is that cohousing can save your life. if i was a doctor, i would tell you to take two aspirin, and call me in the morning. but as an architect, i'm going to suggest that you take a walk with your neighbor, share a meal together, and call me in 20 years.thank you. <title = "A simple new blood test that can catch cancer early">
<tags = "['DNA', 'TED Fellows', 'biology', 'cancer', 'disease', 'epidemiology', 'health', 'innovation', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'science']">
<occupation = "Geneticist">
cancer. many of us have lost family, friends or loved ones to this horrible disease. i know there are some of you in the audience who are cancer survivors, or who are fighting cancer at this moment. my heart goes out to you. while this word often conjures up emotions of sadness and anger and fear, i bring you good news from the front lines of cancer research. the fact is, we are starting to win the war on cancer. in fact, we lie at the intersection of the three of the most exciting developments within cancer research.the first is cancer genomics. the genome is a composition of all the genetic information encoded by dna in an organism. in cancers, changes in the dna called mutations are what drive these cancers to go out of control. around 10 years ago, i was part of the team at johns hopkins that first mapped the mutations of cancers. we did this first for colorectal, breast, pancreatic and brain cancers. and since then, there have been over 90 projects in 70 countries all over the world, working to understand the genetic basis of these diseases. today, tens of thousands of cancers are understood down to exquisite molecular detail.the second revolution is precision medicine, also known as "personalized medicine." instead of one-size-fits-all methods to be able to treat cancers, there is a whole new class of drugs that are able to target cancers based on their unique genetic profile. today, there are a host of these tailor-made drugs, called targeted therapies, available to physicians even today to be able to personalize their therapy for their patients, and many others are in development.the third exciting revolution is immunotherapy, and this is really exciting. scientists have been able to leverage the immune system in the fight against cancer. for example, there have been ways where we find the off switches of cancer, and new drugs have been able to turn the immune system back on, to be able to fight cancer. in addition, there are ways where you can take away immune cells from the body, train them, engineer them and put them back into the body to fight cancer. almost sounds like science fiction, doesn't it?while i was a researcher at the national cancer institute, i had the privilege of working with some of the pioneers of this field and watched the development firsthand. it's been pretty amazing. today, over 600 clinical trials are open, actively recruiting patients to explore all aspects in immunotherapy.while these three exciting revolutions are ongoing, unfortunately, this is only the beginning, and there are still many, many challenges. let me illustrate with a patient. here is a patient with a skin cancer called melanoma. it's horrible; the cancer has gone everywhere. however, scientists were able to map the mutations of this cancer and give a specific treatment that targets one of the mutations. and the result is almost miraculous. tumors almost seem to melt away. unfortunately, this is not the end of the story. a few months later, this picture is taken. the tumor has come back. the question is: why? the answer is tumor heterogeneity. let me explain.even a cancer as small as one centimeter in diameter harbors over a hundred million different cells. while genetically similar, there are small differences in these different cancers that make them differently prone to different drugs. so even if you have a drug that's highly effective, that kills almost all the cells, there is a chance that there's a small population that's resistant to the drug. this ultimately is the population that comes back, and takes over the patient.so then the question is: what do we do with this information? well, the key, then, is to apply all these exciting advancements in cancer therapy earlier, as soon as we can, before these resistance clones emerge. the key to cancer and curing cancer is early detection. and we intuitively know this. finding cancer early results in better outcomes, and the numbers show this as well. for example, in ovarian cancer, if you detect cancer in stage four, only 17 percent of the women survive at five years. however, if you are able to detect this cancer as early as stage one, over 92 percent of women will survive. but the sad fact is, only 15 percent of women are detected at stage one, whereas the vast majority, 70 percent, are detected in stages three and four.we desperately need better detection mechanisms for cancers. the current best ways to screen cancer fall into one of three categories. first is medical procedures, which is like colonoscopy for colon cancer. second is protein biomarkers, like psa for prostate cancer. or third, imaging techniques, such as mammography for breast cancer. medical procedures are the gold standard; however, they are highly invasive and require a large infrastructure to implement. protein markers, while effective in some populations, are not very specific in some circumstances, resulting in high numbers of false positives, which then results in unnecessary work-ups and unnecessary procedures. imaging methods, while useful in some populations, expose patients to harmful radiation. in addition, it is not applicable to all patients. for example, mammography has problems in women with dense breasts.so what we need is a method that is noninvasive, that is light in infrastructure, that is highly specific, that also does not have false positives, does not use any radiation and is applicable to large populations. even more importantly, we need a method to be able to detect cancers before they're 100 million cells in size. does such a technology exist? well, i wouldn't be up here giving a talk if it didn't.i'm excited to tell you about this latest technology we've developed. central to our technology is a simple blood test. the blood circulatory system, while seemingly mundane, is essential for you to survive, providing oxygen and nutrients to your cells, and removing waste and carbon dioxide. here's a key biological insight: cancer cells grow and die faster than normal cells, and when they die, dna is shed into the blood system. since we know the signatures of these cancer cells from all the different cancer genome sequencing projects, we can look for those signals in the blood to be able to detect these cancers early. so instead of waiting for cancers to be large enough to cause symptoms, or for them to be dense enough to show up on imaging, or for them to be prominent enough for you to be able to visualize on medical procedures, we can start looking for cancers while they are relatively pretty small, by looking for these small amounts of dna in the blood.so let me tell you how we do this. first, like i said, we start off with a simple blood test — no radiation, no complicated equipment — a simple blood test. then the blood is shipped to us, and what we do is extract the dna out of it. while your body is mostly healthy cells, most of the dna that's detected will be from healthy cells. however, there will be a small amount, less than one percent, that comes from the cancer cells. then we use molecular biology methods to be able to enrich this dna for areas of the genome which are known to be associated with cancer, based on the information from the cancer genomics projects. we're able to then put this dna into dna-sequencing machines and are able to digitize the dna into a's, c's, t's and g's and have this final readout. ultimately, we have information of billions of letters that output from this run. we then apply statistical and computational methods to be able to find the small signal that's present, indicative of the small amount of cancer dna in the blood.so does this actually work in patients? well, because there's no way of really predicting right now which patients will get cancer, we use the next best population: cancers in remission; specifically, lung cancer. the sad fact is, even with the best drugs that we have today, most lung cancers come back. the key, then, is to see whether we're able to detect these recurrences of cancers earlier than with standard methods.we just finished a major trial with professor charles swanton at university college london, examining this. let me walk you through an example of one patient. here's an example of one patient who undergoes surgery at time point zero, and then undergoes chemotherapy. then the patient is under remission. he is monitored using clinical exams and imaging methods. around day 450, unfortunately, the cancer comes back. the question is: are we able to catch this earlier? during this whole time, we've been collecting blood serially to be able to measure the amount of ctdna in the blood. so at the initial time point, as expected, there's a high level of cancer dna in the blood. however, this goes away to zero in subsequent time points and remains negligible after subsequent points. however, around day 340, we see the rise of cancer dna in the blood, and eventually, it goes up higher for days 400 and 450.here's the key, if you've missed it: at day 340, we see the rise in the cancer dna in the blood. that means we are catching this cancer over a hundred days earlier than traditional methods. this is a hundred days earlier where we can give therapies, a hundred days earlier where we can do surgical interventions, or even a hundred days less for the cancer to grow or a hundred days less for resistance to occur. for some patients, this hundred days means the matter of life and death. we're really excited about this information.because of this assignment, we've done additional studies now in other cancers, including breast cancer, lung cancer and ovarian cancer, and i can't wait to see how much earlier we can find these cancers.ultimately, i have a dream, a dream of two vials of blood, and that, in the future, as part of all of our standard physical exams, we'll have two vials of blood drawn. and from these two vials of blood we will be able to compare the dna from all known signatures of cancer, and hopefully then detect cancers months to even years earlier. even with the therapies we have currently, this could mean that millions of lives could be saved. and if you add on to that recent advancements in immunotherapy and targeted therapies, the end of cancer is in sight.the next time you hear the word "cancer," i want you to add to the emotions: hope. hold on. cancer researchers all around the world are working feverishly to beat this disease, and tremendous progress is being made.this is the beginning of the end. we will win the war on cancer. and to me, this is amazing news.thank you. <title = "How a handful of tech companies control billions of minds every day">
<tags = "['algorithm', 'design', 'product design', 'social media', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Design thinker">
i want you to imagine walking into a room, a control room with a bunch of people, a hundred people, hunched over a desk with little dials, and that that control room will shape the thoughts and feelings of a billion people. this might sound like science fiction, but this actually exists right now, today.i know because i used to be in one of those control rooms. i was a design ethicist at google, where i studied how do you ethically steer people's thoughts? because what we don't talk about is how the handful of people working at a handful of technology companies through their choices will steer what a billion people are thinking today. because when you pull out your phone and they design how this works or what's on the feed, it's scheduling little blocks of time in our minds. if you see a notification, it schedules you to have thoughts that maybe you didn't intend to have. if you swipe over that notification, it schedules you into spending a little bit of time getting sucked into something that maybe you didn't intend to get sucked into. when we talk about technology, we tend to talk about it as this blue sky opportunity. it could go any direction. and i want to get serious for a moment and tell you why it's going in a very specific direction. because it's not evolving randomly. there's a hidden goal driving the direction of all of the technology we make, and that goal is the race for our attention. because every new site — ted, elections, politicians, games, even meditation apps — have to compete for one thing, which is our attention, and there's only so much of it. and the best way to get people's attention is to know how someone's mind works. and there's a whole bunch of persuasive techniques that i learned in college at a lab called the persuasive technology lab to get people's attention.a simple example is youtube. youtube wants to maximize how much time you spend. and so what do they do? they autoplay the next video. and let's say that works really well. they're getting a little bit more of people's time. well, if you're netflix, you look at that and say, well, that's shrinking my market share, so i'm going to autoplay the next episode. but then if you're facebook, you say, that's shrinking all of my market share, so now i have to autoplay all the videos in the newsfeed before waiting for you to click play. so the internet is not evolving at random. the reason it feels like it's sucking us in the way it is is because of this race for attention. we know where this is going. technology is not neutral, and it becomes this race to the bottom of the brain stem of who can go lower to get it.let me give you an example of snapchat. if you didn't know, snapchat is the number one way that teenagers in the united states communicate. so if you're like me, and you use text messages to communicate, snapchat is that for teenagers, and there's, like, a hundred million of them that use it. and they invented a feature called snapstreaks, which shows the number of days in a row that two people have communicated with each other. in other words, what they just did is they gave two people something they don't want to lose. because if you're a teenager, and you have 150 days in a row, you don't want that to go away. and so think of the little blocks of time that that schedules in kids' minds. this isn't theoretical: when kids go on vacation, it's been shown they give their passwords to up to five other friends to keep their snapstreaks going, even when they can't do it. and they have, like, 30 of these things, and so they have to get through taking photos of just pictures or walls or ceilings just to get through their day. so it's not even like they're having real conversations. we have a temptation to think about this as, oh, they're just using snapchat the way we used to gossip on the telephone. it's probably ok. well, what this misses is that in the 1970s, when you were just gossiping on the telephone, there wasn't a hundred engineers on the other side of the screen who knew exactly how your psychology worked and orchestrated you into a double bind with each other.now, if this is making you feel a little bit of outrage, notice that that thought just comes over you. outrage is a really good way also of getting your attention, because we don't choose outrage. it happens to us. and if you're the facebook newsfeed, whether you'd want to or not, you actually benefit when there's outrage. because outrage doesn't just schedule a reaction in emotional time, space, for you. we want to share that outrage with other people. so we want to hit share and say, "can you believe the thing that they said?" and so outrage works really well at getting attention, such that if facebook had a choice between showing you the outrage feed and a calm newsfeed, they would want to show you the outrage feed, not because someone consciously chose that, but because that worked better at getting your attention. and the newsfeed control room is not accountable to us. it's only accountable to maximizing attention. it's also accountable, because of the business model of advertising, for anybody who can pay the most to actually walk into the control room and say, "that group over there, i want to schedule these thoughts into their minds." so you can target, you can precisely target a lie directly to the people who are most susceptible. and because this is profitable, it's only going to get worse.so i'm here today because the costs are so obvious. i don't know a more urgent problem than this, because this problem is underneath all other problems. it's not just taking away our agency to spend our attention and live the lives that we want, it's changing the way that we have our conversations, it's changing our democracy, and it's changing our ability to have the conversations and relationships we want with each other. and it affects everyone, because a billion people have one of these in their pocket.so how do we fix this? we need to make three radical changes to technology and to our society. the first is we need to acknowledge that we are persuadable. once you start understanding that your mind can be scheduled into having little thoughts or little blocks of time that you didn't choose, wouldn't we want to use that understanding and protect against the way that that happens? i think we need to see ourselves fundamentally in a new way. it's almost like a new period of human history, like the enlightenment, but almost a kind of self-aware enlightenment, that we can be persuaded, and there might be something we want to protect. the second is we need new models and accountability systems so that as the world gets better and more and more persuasive over time — because it's only going to get more persuasive — that the people in those control rooms are accountable and transparent to what we want. the only form of ethical persuasion that exists is when the goals of the persuader are aligned with the goals of the persuadee. and that involves questioning big things, like the business model of advertising. lastly, we need a design renaissance, because once you have this view of human nature, that you can steer the timelines of a billion people — just imagine, there's people who have some desire about what they want to do and what they want to be thinking and what they want to be feeling and how they want to be informed, and we're all just tugged into these other directions. and you have a billion people just tugged into all these different directions. well, imagine an entire design renaissance that tried to orchestrate the exact and most empowering time-well-spent way for those timelines to happen. and that would involve two things: one would be protecting against the timelines that we don't want to be experiencing, the thoughts that we wouldn't want to be happening, so that when that ding happens, not having the ding that sends us away; and the second would be empowering us to live out the timeline that we want.so let me give you a concrete example. today, let's say your friend cancels dinner on you, and you are feeling a little bit lonely. and so what do you do in that moment? you open up facebook. and in that moment, the designers in the control room want to schedule exactly one thing, which is to maximize how much time you spend on the screen. now, instead, imagine if those designers created a different timeline that was the easiest way, using all of their data, to actually help you get out with the people that you care about? just think, alleviating all loneliness in society, if that was the timeline that facebook wanted to make possible for people. or imagine a different conversation. let's say you wanted to post something supercontroversial on facebook, which is a really important thing to be able to do, to talk about controversial topics. and right now, when there's that big comment box, it's almost asking you, what key do you want to type? in other words, it's scheduling a little timeline of things you're going to continue to do on the screen. and imagine instead that there was another button there saying, what would be most time well spent for you? and you click "host a dinner." and right there underneath the item it said, "who wants to rsvp for the dinner?" and so you'd still have a conversation about something controversial, but you'd be having it in the most empowering place on your timeline, which would be at home that night with a bunch of a friends over to talk about it. so imagine we're running, like, a find and replace on all of the timelines that are currently steering us towards more and more screen time persuasively and replacing all of those timelines with what do we want in our lives.it doesn't have to be this way. instead of handicapping our attention, imagine if we used all of this data and all of this power and this new view of human nature to give us a superhuman ability to focus and a superhuman ability to put our attention to what we cared about and a superhuman ability to have the conversations that we need to have for democracy. the most complex challenges in the world require not just us to use our attention individually. they require us to use our attention and coordinate it together. climate change is going to require that a lot of people are being able to coordinate their attention in the most empowering way together. and imagine creating a superhuman ability to do that.sometimes the world's most pressing and important problems are not these hypothetical future things that we could create in the future. sometimes the most pressing problems are the ones that are right underneath our noses, the things that are already directing a billion people's thoughts. and maybe instead of getting excited about the new augmented reality and virtual reality and these cool things that could happen, which are going to be susceptible to the same race for attention, if we could fix the race for attention on the thing that's already in a billion people's pockets. maybe instead of getting excited about the most exciting new cool fancy education apps, we could fix the way kids' minds are getting manipulated into sending empty messages back and forth. maybe instead of worrying about hypothetical future runaway artificial intelligences that are maximizing for one goal, we could solve the runaway artificial intelligence that already exists right now, which are these newsfeeds maximizing for one thing. it's almost like instead of running away to colonize new planets, we could fix the one that we're already on. solving this problem is critical infrastructure for solving every other problem. there's nothing in your life or in our collective problems that does not require our ability to put our attention where we care about. at the end of our lives, all we have is our attention and our time. what will be time well spent for ours?thank you. chris anderson: tristan, thank you. hey, stay up here a sec. first of all, thank you. i know we asked you to do this talk on pretty short notice, and you've had quite a stressful week getting this thing together, so thank you. some people listening might say, what you complain about is addiction, and all these people doing this stuff, for them it's actually interesting. all these design decisions have built user content that is fantastically interesting. the world's more interesting than it ever has been. what's wrong with that?tristan harris: i think it's really interesting. one way to see this is if you're just youtube, for example, you want to always show the more interesting next video. you want to get better and better at suggesting that next video, but even if you could propose the perfect next video that everyone would want to watch, it would just be better and better at keeping you hooked on the screen. so what's missing in that equation is figuring out what our boundaries would be. you would want youtube to know something about, say, falling asleep. the ceo of netflix recently said, "our biggest competitors are facebook, youtube and sleep." and so what we need to recognize is that the human architecture is limited and that we have certain boundaries or dimensions of our lives that we want to be honored and respected, and technology could help do that. ca: i mean, could you make the case that part of the problem here is that we've got a naïve model of human nature? so much of this is justified in terms of human preference, where we've got these algorithms that do an amazing job of optimizing for human preference, but which preference? there's the preferences of things that we really care about when we think about them versus the preferences of what we just instinctively click on. if we could implant that more nuanced view of human nature in every design, would that be a step forward?th: absolutely. i mean, i think right now it's as if all of our technology is basically only asking our lizard brain what's the best way to just impulsively get you to do the next tiniest thing with your time, instead of asking you in your life what we would be most time well spent for you? what would be the perfect timeline that might include something later, would be time well spent for you here at ted in your last day here?ca: so if facebook and google and everyone said to us first up, "hey, would you like us to optimize for your reflective brain or your lizard brain? you choose."th: right. that would be one way. yes.ca: you said persuadability, that's an interesting word to me because to me there's two different types of persuadability. there's the persuadability that we're trying right now of reason and thinking and making an argument, but i think you're almost talking about a different kind, a more visceral type of persuadability, of being persuaded without even knowing that you're thinking.th: exactly. the reason i care about this problem so much is i studied at a lab called the persuasive technology lab at stanford that taught [students how to recognize] exactly these techniques. there's conferences and workshops that teach people all these covert ways of getting people's attention and orchestrating people's lives. and it's because most people don't know that that exists that this conversation is so important.ca: tristan, you and i, we both know so many people from all these companies. there are actually many here in the room, and i don't know about you, but my experience of them is that there is no shortage of good intent. people want a better world. they are actually — they really want it. and i don't think anything you're saying is that these are evil people. it's a system where there's these unintended consequences that have really got out of control —th: of this race for attention. it's the classic race to the bottom when you have to get attention, and it's so tense. the only way to get more is to go lower on the brain stem, to go lower into outrage, to go lower into emotion, to go lower into the lizard brain.ca: well, thank you so much for helping us all get a little bit wiser about this.tristan harris, thank you. th: thank you very much. <title = "You smell with your body, not just your nose">
<tags = "['Human body', 'Senses', 'TEDMED', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'discovery', 'health', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'nature', 'physiology', 'science', 'smell']">
<occupation = "Physiologist">
here's a question for you: how many different scents do you think you can smell, and maybe even identify with accuracy? 100? 300? 1,000? one study estimates that humans can detect up to one trillion different odors. a trillion. it's hard to imagine, but your nose has the molecular machinery to make it happen.olfactory receptors — tiny scent detectors — are packed into your nose, each one patiently waiting to be activated by the odor, or ligand, that it's been assigned to detect. it turns out we humans, like all vertebrates, have lots of olfactory receptors. in fact, more of our dna is devoted to genes for different olfactory receptors than for any other type of protein.why is that? could olfactory receptors be doing something else in addition to allowing us to smell?in 1991, linda buck and richard axel uncovered the molecular identity of olfactory receptors — work which ultimately led to a nobel prize. at the time, we all assumed that these receptors were only found in the nose. however, about a year or so later, a report emerged of an olfactory receptor expressed in a tissue other than the nose. and then another such report emerged, and another. we now know that these receptors are found all over the body, including in some pretty unexpected places — in muscle, in kidneys, lungs and blood vessels.but what are they doing there? well, we know that olfactory receptors act as sensitive chemical sensors in the nose — that's how they mediate our sense of smell. it turns out they also act as sensitive chemical sensors in many other parts of the body. now, i'm not saying that your liver can detect the aroma of your morning coffee as you walk into the kitchen. rather, after you drink your morning coffee, your liver might use an olfactory receptor to chemically detect the change in concentration of a chemical floating through your bloodstream.many cell types and tissues in the body use chemical sensors, or chemosensors, to keep track of the concentration of hormones, metabolites and other molecules, and some of these chemosensors are olfactory receptors. if you are a pancreas or a kidney and you need a specialized chemical sensor that will allow you to keep track of a specific molecule, why reinvent the wheel?one of the first examples of an olfactory receptor found outside the nose showed that human sperm express an olfactory receptor, and that sperm with this receptor will seek out the chemical that the receptor responds to — the receptor's ligand. that is, the sperm will swim toward the ligand. this has intriguing implications. are sperm aided in finding the egg by sniffing out the area with the highest ligand concentration?i like this example because it clearly demonstrates that an olfactory receptor's primary job is to be a chemical sensor, but depending on the context, it can influence how you perceive a smell, or in which direction sperm will swim, and as it turns out, a huge variety of other processes. olfactory receptors have been implicated in muscle cell migration, in helping the lung to sense and respond to inhaled chemicals, and in wound healing.similarly, taste receptors once thought to be found only in the tongue, are now known to be expressed in cells and tissues throughout the body. even more surprisingly, a recent study found that the light receptors in our eyes also play a role in our blood vessels.in my lab, we work on trying to understand the roles of olfactory receptors and taste receptors in the context of the kidney. the kidney is a central control center for homeostasis. and to us, it makes sense that a homeostatic control center would be a logical place to employ chemical sensors. we've identified a number of different olfactory and taste receptors in the kidney, one of which, olfactory receptor 78, is known to be expressed in cells and tissues that are important in the regulation of blood pressure. when this receptor is deleted in mice, their blood pressure is low. surprisingly, this receptor was found to respond to chemicals called short-chain fatty acids that are produced by the bacteria that reside in your gut — your gut microbiota. after being produced by your gut microbiota, these chemicals are absorbed into your bloodstream where they can then interact with receptors like olfactory receptor 78, meaning that the changes in metabolism of your gut microbiota may influence your blood pressure.although we've identified a number of different olfactory and taste receptors in the kidney, we've only just begun to tease out their different functions and to figure out which chemicals each of them responds to. similar investigations lie ahead for many other organs and tissues — only a small minority of receptors has been studied to date. this is exciting stuff. it's revolutionizing our understanding of the scope of influence for one of the five senses. and it has the potential to change our understanding of some aspects of human physiology. it's still early, but i think we've picked up on the scent of something we're following. thank you. <title = "Why I still have hope for coral reefs">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'animals', 'biology', 'climate change', 'environment', 'exoskeleton', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'oceans', 'pollution', 'science', 'water']">
<occupation = "Coral reef biologist">
the first time i cried underwater was in 2008, the island of curaçao, way down in the southern caribbean. it's beautiful there. i was studying these corals for my phd, and after days and days of diving on the same reef, i had gotten to know them as individuals. i had made friends with coral colonies — totally a normal thing to do. then, hurricane omar smashed them apart and ripped off their skin, leaving little bits of wounded tissue that would have a hard time healing, and big patches of dead skeleton that would get overgrown by algae. when i saw this damage for the first time, stretching all the way down the reef, i sunk onto the sand in my scuba gear and i cried. if a coral could die that fast, how could a reef ever survive? and why was i making it my job to try to fight for them?i never heard another scientist tell that kind of story until last year. a scientist in guam wrote, "i cried right into my mask," seeing the damage on the reefs. then a scientist in australia wrote, "i showed my students the results of our coral surveys, and we wept." crying about corals is having a moment, guys. and that's because reefs in the pacific are losing corals faster than we've ever seen before. because of climate change, the water is so hot for so long in the summers, that these animals can't function normally. they're spitting out the colored algae that lives in their skin, and the clear bleached tissue that's left usually starves to death and then rots away. then the skeletons are overgrown by algae.this is happening over an unbelievable scale. the northern great barrier reef lost two-thirds of its corals last year over a distance of hundreds of miles, then bleached again this year, and the bleaching stretched further south. reefs in the pacific are in a nosedive right now, and no one knows how bad it's going to get, except ... over in the caribbean where i work, we've already been through the nosedive. reefs there have suffered through centuries of intense human abuse. we kind of already know how the story goes. and we might be able to help predict what happens next.let's consult a graph. since the invention of scuba, scientists have measured the amount of coral on the seafloor, and how it's changed through time. and after centuries of ratcheting human pressure, caribbean reefs met one of three fates. some reefs lost their corals very quickly. some reefs lost their corals more slowly, but kind of ended up in the same place. ok, so far this is not going very well. but some reefs in the caribbean — the ones best protected and the ones a little further from humans — they managed to hold onto their corals. give us a challenge. and, we almost never saw a reef hit zero.the second time i cried underwater was on the north shore of curaçao, 2011. it was the calmest day of the year, but it's always pretty sketchy diving there. my boyfriend and i swam against the waves. i watched my compass so we could find our way back out, and he watched for sharks, and after 20 minutes of swimming that felt like an hour, we finally dropped down to the reef, and i was so shocked, and i was so happy that my eyes filled with tears. there were corals 1,000 years old lined up one after another. they had survived the entire history of european colonialism in the caribbean, and for centuries before that.i never knew what a coral could do when it was given a chance to thrive. the truth is that even as we lose so many corals, even as we go through this massive coral die-off, some reefs will survive. some will be ragged on the edge, some will be beautiful. and by protecting shorelines and giving us food to eat and supporting tourism, they will still be worth billions and billions of dollars a year. the best time to protect a reef was 50 years ago, but the second-best time is right now. even as we go through bleaching events, more frequent and in more places, some corals will be able to recover.we had a bleaching event in 2010 in the caribbean that took off big patches of skin on boulder corals like these. this coral lost half of its skin. but if you look at the side of this coral a few years later, this coral is actually healthy again. it's doing what a healthy coral does. it's making copies of its polyps, it's fighting back the algae and it's reclaiming its territory. if a few polyps survive, a coral can regrow; it just needs time and protection and a reasonable temperature. some corals can regrow in 10 years — others take a lot longer. but the more stresses we take off them locally — things like overfishing, sewage pollution, fertilizer pollution, dredging, coastal construction — the better they can hang on as we stabilize the climate, and the faster they can regrow.and as we go through the long, tough and necessary process of stabilizing the climate of planet earth, some new corals will still be born. this is what i study in my research. we try to understand how corals make babies, and how those babies find their way to the reef, and we invent new methods to help them survive those early, fragile life stages. one of my favorite coral babies of all time showed up right after hurricane omar. it's the same species i was studying before the storm, but you almost never see babies of this species — it's really rare. this is actually an endangered species. in this photo, this little baby coral, this little circle of polyps, is a few years old. like its cousins that bleach, it's fighting back the algae. and like its cousins on the north shore, it's aiming to live for 1,000 years.what's happening in the world and in the ocean has changed our time horizon. we can be incredibly pessimistic on the short term, and mourn what we lost and what we really took for granted. but we can still be optimistic on the long term, and we can still be ambitious about what we fight for and what we expect from our governments, from our planet. corals have been living on planet earth for hundreds of millions of years. they survived the extinction of the dinosaurs. they're badasses. an individual coral can go through tremendous trauma and fully recover if it's given a chance and it's given protection. corals have always been playing the long game, and now so are we.thanks very much. <title = "Meet Spot, the robot dog that can run, hop and open doors">
<tags = "['demo', 'future', 'robots', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Roboticist">
 that's spotmini. he'll be back in a little while.i — i love building robots. and my long-term goal is to build robots that can do what people and animals do. and there's three things in particular that we're interested in. one is balance and dynamic mobility, the second one is mobile manipulation, and the third one is mobile perception.so, dynamic mobility and balance — i'm going to do a demo for you. i'm standing here, balancing. i can see you're not very impressed. ok, how about now? how about now? those simple capabilities mean that people can go almost anywhere on earth, on any kind of terrain. we want to capture that for robots.what about manipulation? i'm holding this clicker in my hand; i'm not even looking at it, and i can manipulate it without any problem. but even more important, i can move my body while i hold the manipulator, the clicker, and stabilize and coordinate my body, and i can even walk around. and that means i can move around in the world and expand the range of my arms and my hands and really be able to handle almost anything. so that's mobile manipulation. and all of you can do this.third is perception. i'm looking at a room with over 1,000 people in it, and my amazing visual system can see every one of you — you're all stable in space, even when i move my head, even when i move around. that kind of mobile perception is really important for robots that are going to move and act out in the world.i'm going to give you a little status report on where we are in developing robots toward these ends. the first three robots are all dynamically stabilized robots. this one goes back a little over 10 years ago — "bigdog." it's got a gyroscope that helps stabilize it. it's got sensors and a control computer.here's a cheetah robot that's running with a galloping gait, where it recycles its energy, it bounces on the ground, and it's computing all the time in order to keep itself stabilized and propelled.and here's a bigger robot that's got such good locomotion using its legs, that it can go in deep snow. this is about 10 inches deep, and it doesn't really have any trouble.this is spot, a new generation of robot — just slightly older than the one that came out onstage. and we've been asking the question — you've all heard about drone delivery: can we deliver packages to your houses with drones? well, what about plain old legged-robot delivery? so we've been taking our robot to our employees' homes to see whether we could get in — the various access ways. and believe me, in the boston area, there's every manner of stairway twists and turns. so it's a real challenge. but we're doing very well, about 70 percent of the way.and here's mobile manipulation, where we've put an arm on the robot, and it's finding its way through the door. now, one of the important things about making autonomous robots is to make them not do just exactly what you say, but make them deal with the uncertainty of what happens in the real world. so we have steve there, one of the engineers, giving the robot a hard time. and the fact that the programming still tolerates all that disturbance — it does what it's supposed to.here's another example, where eric is tugging on the robot as it goes up the stairs. and believe me, getting it to do what it's supposed to do in those circumstances is a real challenge, but the result is something that's going to generalize and make robots much more autonomous than they would be otherwise.this is atlas, a humanoid robot. it's a third-generation humanoid that we've been building. i'll tell you a little bit about the hardware design later. and we've been saying: how close to human levels of performance and speed could we get in an ordinary task, like moving boxes around on a conveyor? we're getting up to about two-thirds of the speed that a human operates on average. and this robot is using both hands, it's using its body, it's stepping, so it's really an example of dynamic stability, mobile manipulation and mobile perception. here — we actually have two atlases. now, everything doesn't go exactly the way it's supposed to.  and here's our latest robot, called "handle." handle is interesting, because it's sort of half like an animal, and it's half something else with these leg-like things and wheels. it's got its arms on in kind of a funny way, but it really does some remarkable things. it can carry 100 pounds. it's probably going to lift more than that, but so far we've done 100. it's got some pretty good rough-terrain capability, even though it has wheels. and handle loves to put on a show. i'm going to give you a little bit of robot religion. a lot of people think that a robot is a machine where there's a computer that's telling it what to do, and the computer is listening through its sensors. but that's really only half of the story. the real story is that the computer is on one side, making suggestions to the robot, and on the other side are the physics of the world. and that physics involves gravity, friction, bouncing into things. in order to have a successful robot, my religion is that you have to do a holistic design, where you're designing the software, the hardware and the behavior all at one time, and all these parts really intermesh and cooperate with each other. and when you get the perfect design, you get a real harmony between all those parts interacting with each other. so it's half software and half hardware, plus the behavior.we've done some work lately on the hardware, where we tried to go — the picture on the left is a conventional design, where you have parts that are all bolted together, conductors, tubes, connectors. and on the right is a more integrated thing; it's supposed to look like an anatomy drawing. using the miracle of 3-d printing, we're starting to build parts of robots that look a lot more like the anatomy of an animal. so that's an upper-leg part that has hydraulic pathways — actuators, filters — all embedded, all printed as one piece, and the whole structure is developed with a knowledge of what the loads and behavior are going to be, which is available from data recorded from robots and simulations and things like that.so it's a data-driven hardware design. and using processes like that, not only the upper leg but some other things, we've gotten our robots to go from big, behemoth, bulky, slow, bad robots — that one on the right, weighing almost 400 pounds — down to the one in the middle which was just in the video, weighs about 190 pounds, just a little bit more than me, and we have a new one, which is working but i'm not going to show it to you yet, on the left, which weighs just 165 pounds, with all the same strength and capabilities. so these things are really getting better very quickly.so it's time for spot to come back out, and we're going to demonstrate a little bit of mobility, dexterity and perception. this is seth davis, who's my robot wrangler today, and he's giving spot some general direction by steering it around, but all the coordination of the legs and the sensors is done by the robot's computers on board. the robot can walk with a number of different gaits; it's got a gyro, or a solid-state gyro, an imu on board. obviously, it's got a battery, and things like that. one of the cool things about a legged robot is, it's omnidirectional. in addition to going forward, it can go sideways, it can turn in place. and this robot is a little bit of a show-off. it loves to use its dynamic gaits, like running — and it's got one more. now if it were really a show-off, it would be hopping on one foot, but, you know.now, spot has a set of cameras here, stereo cameras, and we have a feed up in the center. it's kind of dark out in the audience, but it's going to use those cameras in order to look at the terrain right in front of it, while it goes over these obstacles back here. for this demo, seth is steering, but the robot's doing all its own terrain planning. this is a terrain map, where the data from the cameras is being developed in real time, showing the red spots, which are where it doesn't want to step, and the green spots are the good places. and here it's treating them like stepping-stones. so it's trying to stay up on the blocks, and it adjusts its stride, and there's a ton of planning that has to go into an operation like that, and it does all that planning in real time, where it adjusts the steps a little bit longer or a little bit shorter.now we're going to change it into a different mode, where it's just going to treat the blocks like terrain and decide whether to step up or down as it goes. so this is using dynamic balance and mobile perception, because it has to coordinate what it sees along with how it's moving.the other thing spot has is a robot arm. some of you may see that as a head and a neck, but believe me, it's an arm. seth is driving it around. he's actually driving the hand and the body is following. so the two are coordinated in the way i was talking about before — in the way people can do that. in fact, one of the cool things spot can do we call, "chicken-head mode," and it keeps its head in one place in space, and it moves its body all around. there's a variation of this that's called "twerking" — but we're not going to use that today. so, spot: i'm feeling a little thirsty. could you get me a soda? for this demo, seth is not doing any driving. we have a lidar on the back of the robot, and it's using these props we've put on the stage to localize itself. it's gone over to that location. now it's using a camera that's in its hand to find the cup, picks it up — and again, seth's not driving. we've planned out a path for it to go — it looked like it was going off the path — and now seth's going to take over control again, because i'm a little bit chicken about having it do this by itself. thank you, spot. so, spot: how do you feel about having just finished your ted performance? me, too! thank you all, and thanks to the team at boston dynamics, who did all the hard work behind this. helen walters: marc, come back in the middle. thank you so much. come over here, i have questions.so, you mentioned the ups and the package delivery. what are the other applications that you see for your robots?marc raibert: you know, i think that robots that have the capabilities i've been talking about are going to be incredibly useful. about a year ago, i went to fukushima to see what the situation was there, and there's just a huge need for machines that can go into some of the dirty places and help remediate that.i think it won't be too long until we have robots like this in our homes, and one of the big needs is to take care of the aging and invalids. i think that it won't be too long till we're using robots to help take care of our parents, or probably more likely, have our children help take care of us. and there's a bunch of other things. i think the sky's the limit. many of the ideas we haven't thought of yet, and people like you will help us think of new applications.hw: so what about the dark side? what about the military? are they interested?mr: sure, the military has been a big funder of robotics. i don't think the military is the dark side myself, but i think, as with all advanced technology, it can be used for all kinds of things.hw: awesome. thank you so much.mr: ok, you're welcome.thank you. <title = "Can art amend history?">
<tags = "['art', 'history', 'identity', 'inequality', 'painting', 'race']">
<occupation = "Artist">
i love museums. have you guys ever been to the natural history museum? in new york city? so one of the things that i do is i take my kids to the museum. recently i took them to the natural history museum. i had my two sons with me, sabian and dabith. and we go into the front entrance of the museum, and there's that amazing sculpture of teddy roosevelt out there. you guys know which one i'm talking about. teddy roosevelt is sitting there with one hand on the horse, bold, strong, sleeves rolled up. i don't know if he's bare-chested, but it kind of feels like it. and on the left-hand side of him is a native american walking. and on the right-hand side of him is an african-american walking. and as we're moving up the stairs, getting closer to the sculpture, my oldest son, who's nine, says, "dad, how come he gets to ride, and they have to walk?"it stopped me in my tracks. it stopped me in my tracks. there was so much history that we would have to go through to try to explain that, and that's something i try to do with them anyways. it's a question that i probably would have never really asked. but fundamentally what he was saying was, "that doesn't look fair. dad, that doesn't look fair. and why is this thing that's so not fair sitting outside of such an amazing institution." and his question got me wondering, is there a way for us to amend our public sculptures, our national monuments? not erase them, but is there a way to amend them?now, i didn't grow up going to museums. that's not my history. my mother was 15 years old when i was born. she is amazing. my father was struggling with his own things for most of my life. if you really want to know the truth, the only reason i got into art is because of a woman. there was this amazing, amazing, fantastic, beautiful, smart woman, four years older than me, and i wanted to go out with her. but she said, "you're too young and you're not thinking about your future." so i ran on down to the junior college, registered for some classes, ran on back, and basically was like, "i'm thinking about my future now." "can we go out?"for the record, she's even more amazing. i married her. so when i randomly ran down to the junior college and registered for classes, i really wasn't paying attention to what i was registering to. so i ended up with an art history class, and i didn't know a thing about art history. but something amazing happened when i went into that class. for the first time in my academic career, my visual intelligence was required of me. for the first time. the professor would put up an image, bold strokes of blues and yellows, and say, "who's that?" and i'd go, "that's van gogh. clearly that is van gogh. i got this." i got a b in that class. for me, that was amazing. in high school, let's just say i wasn't a great student. ok? in high school, my gpa was .65. decimal point first, six five. so me getting a b was huge, huge, absolutely huge. and because of the fact that i realized that i was able to learn things visually that i couldn't learn in other ways, this became my strategy, this became my tactic for understanding everything else. i wanted to stay in this relationship. things were going well.i decided, let me keep taking these art history classes. one of the last art history classes, i will not forget, i will never forget. it was one of those survey art history classes. anybody ever have one of those survey art history classes, where they try to teach you the entire history of art in a single semester? i'm talking about cave paintings and jackson pollock just crunched together all in the same — it doesn't really work, but they try anyway. well, at the beginning of the semester, i looked at the book, and in this 400-page book was about a 14-page section that was on black people in painting. now, this was a crammed in section that had representations of black people in painting and black people who painted. it was poorly curated, let's just put it that way. nonetheless i was really excited about it, because in all the other classes that i had, we didn't even have that conversation. we didn't talk about it at all. so imagine my surprise when i get to class and on the day that we're supposed to go over that particular chapter, my professor announces, "we're going to skip this chapter today because we do not have time to go through it.""whoa, i'm sorry, hold on, professor, professor. i'm sorry. this is a really important chapter to me. are we going to go over it at any point?""titus, we don't have time for this.""i'm sorry, i'm sorry, i'm sorry, i'm sorry, please, i really need to understand. clearly the author thinks that this is significant. why are we skipping over this?""titus, i do not have time for this.""ok, last question, i'm really sorry here. when can we talk, because we need to talk." i went to her office hours. i ended up getting kicked out of her office. i went to the dean. the dean finally told me, "i can't force her to teach anything." and i knew in that moment if i wanted to understand this history, if i wanted to understand the roles of those folks who had to walk, i was probably going to have to figure that out myself. so ... above you right here on the slide is a painting by frans hals. this is one of the kinds of images that was in that chapter. i taught myself how to paint by going to museums and looking at images like this.i want to show you something.i made this. i — i made some alterations. you'll see there are some slight differences in the painting. all this art history that i had been absorbing helped me to realize that painting is a language. there is a reason why he is the highest in the composition here. there is a reason why the painter is showing us this gold necklace here. he's trying to tell us something about the economic status of these people in these paintings. painting is a visual language where everything in the painting is meaningful, is important. it's coded. but sometimes, because of the compositional structure, because of compositional hierarchy, it's hard to see other things. this silk is supposed to tell us also that they have quite a bit of money. there's more written about dogs in art history than there are about this other character here. historically speaking, in research on these kinds of paintings, i can find out more about the lace that the woman is wearing in this painting — the manufacturer of the lace — than i can about this character here, about his dreams, about his hopes, about what he wanted out of life.i want to show you something. i don't want you to think that this is about eradication. it's not. the oil that you saw me just put inside of this paint is linseed oil. it becomes transparent over time, so eventually what's going to happen is these faces will emerge a little bit. what i'm trying to do, what i'm trying to show you, is how to shift your gaze just slightly, just momentarily, just momentarily, to ask yourself the question, why do some have to walk? what is the impact of these kinds of sculptures at museums? what is the impact of these kinds of paintings on some of our most vulnerable in society, seeing these kinds of depictions of themselves all the time? i'm not saying erase it. we can't erase this history. it's real. we have to know it. i think of it in the same way we think of —let me step back a second. you remember old-school cameras, where when you took a picture, you actually had to focus. right? you'd put the camera up, and if i wanted you in focus, i would move the lens a little to the left and you would come forward. i could move the lens a little to the right, and you would go back and the folks in the background would come out. i'm just trying to do that here. i'm trying to give you that opportunity. i'm trying to answer that question that my son had. i want to make paintings, i want to make sculptures that are honest, that wrestle with the struggles of our past but speak to the diversity and the advances of our present. and we can't do that by taking an eraser and getting rid of stuff. that's just not going to work. i think that we should do it in the same way the american constitution works. when we have a situation where we want to change a law in the american constitution, we don't erase the other one. alongside that is an amendment, something that says, "this is where we were, but this is where we are right now." i figure if we can do that, then that will help us understand a little bit about where we're going.thank you. <title = "What six years in captivity taught me about fear and faith">
<tags = "['South America', 'TED en Español', 'activism', 'fear', 'personal growth', 'politics', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Writer, peace advocate">
the first time i felt fear i was 41 years old. people have always said i was brave. when i was little, i'd climb the highest tree, and i'd approach any animal fearlessly. i liked challenges. my father used to say, "good steel can withstand any temperature."and when i entered into colombian politics, i thought i'd be able to withstand any temperature. i wanted to end corruption; i wanted to cut ties between politicians and drug traffickers. the first time i was elected, it was because i called out, by name, corrupt and untouchable politicians. i also called out the president for his ties to the cartels.that's when the threats started. i had to send my very young children out of the country one morning, hidden, all the way to the airport, in the french ambassador's armored car. days later, i was the victim of an attack, but emerged unharmed. the following year, the colombian people elected me with the highest number of votes. i thought people applauded me because i was brave. i, too, thought i was brave. but i wasn't. i had simply never before experienced true fear.that changed on february 23, 2002. at the time, i was a presidential candidate in colombia promoting my campaign agenda, when i was detained by a group of armed men. they were wearing uniforms with military garments. i looked at their boots; they were rubber. and i knew that the colombian army wore leather boots. i knew that these were farc guerrillas.from that point on, everything happened very quickly. the commando leader ordered us to stop the vehicle. meanwhile, one of his men stepped on an antipersonnel mine and flew through the air. he landed, sitting upright, right in front of me. we made eye contact and it was then that the young man understood: his rubber boot with his leg still in it had landed far away.(sighs)he started screaming like crazy. and the truth is, i felt — as i feel right now, because i'm reliving these emotions — i felt at that moment that something inside of me was breaking and that i was being infected with his fear. my mind went blank and couldn't think; it was paralyzed. when i finally reacted, i said to myself, "they're going to kill me, and i didn't say goodbye to my children." as they took me into the deepest depths of the jungle, the farc soldiers announced that if the government didn't negotiate, they'd kill me. and i knew that the government wouldn't negotiate.from that point on, i went to sleep in fear every night — cold sweats, shaking, stomach ache, insomnia. but worse than that was what was happening to my mind, because my memory was being erased: all the phone numbers, addresses, names of very dear people, even significant life events. and so, i began to doubt myself, to doubt my mental health. and with doubt came desperation, and with desperation came depression. i was suffering notorious behavioral changes and it wasn't just paranoia in moments of panic. it was distrust, it was hatred, and it was also the urge to kill.this, i realized when they had me chained by the neck to a tree. they kept me outside that day, during a tropical downpour. i remember feeling an urgent need to use the bathroom. "whatever you have to do, you'll do in front of me, bitch," the guard screamed at me. and i decided at that moment to kill him. and for days, i was planning, trying to find the right moment, the right way to do it, filled with hatred, filled with fear. then suddenly, i rose up, snapped out of it and thought: "i'm not going to become one of them. i'm not going to become an assassin. i still have enough freedom to decide who i want to be."that's when i learned that fear brought me face to face with myself. it forced me to align my energies, to align my meridians. i learned that facing fear could become a pathway to growth. a lot of emotions arise when i talk about all of this, but when i think back, i'm able to identify the steps i took to do it. i want to share three of them with you.the first was to be guided by principles. because i realized that in the midst of panic and mental block, if i followed my principles, i acted correctly.i remember the first night in a concentration camp that the guerrillas had built in the middle of the jungle, with 12-foot-high bars, barbed wire, lookouts in the four corners and armed men pointing guns at us 24 hours a day. that morning, the first morning, some men arrived, yelling: "count off! count off!" my fellow hostages woke up, startled, and began to identify themselves in numbered sequence. but when it was my turn, i said, "ingrid betancourt. if you want to know if i'm here, call me by my name."the guards' fury was nothing compared to that of the other hostages, because, obviously they were scared — we were all scared — and they were afraid that, because of me, they would be punished. but for me, beyond fear was the need to defend my identity, to not let them turn me into a thing or a number. that was one of the principles: to defend what i considered to be human dignity.but make no mistake: the guerrillas had it all very well analyzed — they had been kidnapping for years, and they had developed a technique to break us, to defeat us, to divide us. and so, the second step was to learn how to build supportive trust, to learn how to unite.the jungle is like a different planet. it's a world of shadows, of rain, with the hum of millions of bugs — majiña ants, bullet ants. i didn't stop scratching a single day while i was in the jungle. and of course, there were tarantulas, scorpions, anacondas ... i once came face to face with a 24-foot long anaconda that could have swallowed me in one bite. jaguars ...but i want to tell you that none of these animals did us as much harm as the human beings. the guerrillas terrorized us. they spread rumors. among the hostages, they sparked betrayals, jealousy, resentment, mistrust.the first time i escaped for a long time was with lucho. lucho had been a hostage for two years longer than i had. we decided to tie ourselves up with ropes to have the strength to lower ourselves into that dark water full of piranhas and alligators. what we did was, during the day, we would hide in the mangroves. and at night, we would leave, get in the water, and we would swim and let the current carry us. that went on for several days. but lucho became sick. he was diabetic, and he fell into a diabetic coma. so the guerrillas captured us.but after having lived through that with lucho, after having faced fear together, united, not punishment, not violence — nothing — could ever again divide us. what's certain is, all the guerrillas' manipulation was so damaging to us that even today, among some of the hostages from back then, tensions linger, passed down from all that poison that the guerrillas created.the third step is very important to me, and it's a gift that i want to give to you. the third step is to learn how to develop faith. i want to explain it like this: jhon frank pinchao was a police officer who had been a hostage for more than eight years. he was famous for being the biggest scaredy-cat of us all. but pincho — i called him "pincho" — pincho decided that he wanted to escape. and he asked me to help him. by that point, i basically had a master's degree in escape attempts. so we got started but we had a delay, because first, pincho had to learn how to swim. and we had to carry out all these preparations in total secrecy. anyway, when we finally had everything ready, pincho came up to me one afternoon and said,"ingrid, suppose i'm in the jungle, and i go around and around in circles, and i can't find the way out. what do i do?""pincho, you grab a phone, and you call the man upstairs.""ingrid, you know i don't believe in god." "god doesn't care. he'll still help you." it rained all night that night. the following morning, the camp woke up to a big commotion, because pincho had fled. they made us dismantle the camp, and we started marching. during the march, the head guerrillas told us that pincho had died, and that they had found his remains eaten by an anaconda. seventeen days passed — and believe me, i counted them, because they were torture for me. but on the seventeenth day, the news exploded from the radio: pincho was free and obviously alive. and this was the first thing he said:"i know my fellow hostages are listening. ingrid, i did what you told me. i called the man upstairs, and he sent me the patrol that rescued me from the jungle."that was an extraordinary moment, because ... obviously fear is contagious. but faith is, too. faith isn't rational or emotional. faith is an exercise of the will. it's the discipline of the will. it's what allows us to transform everything that we are — our weaknesses, our frailties, into strength, into power. it's truly a transformation. it's what gives us the strength to stand up in the face of fear look above it, and see beyond it. i hope you remember that, because i know we all need to connect with that strength we have inside of us for the times when there's a storm raging around our boat.many, many, many, many years passed before i could return to my house. but when they took us, handcuffed, into the helicopter that finally took us out of the jungle, everything happened as quickly as when they kidnapped me. in an instant, i saw the guerrilla commander at my feet, gagged, and the rescue leader, yelling:"we're the colombian army! you are free!"the shriek that came out of all of us when we regained our freedom, continues to vibrate in me to this day.now, i know they can divide all of us, they can manipulate us all with fear. the "no" vote on the peace referendum in colombia; brexit; the idea of a wall between mexico and the united states; islamic terrorism — they're all examples of using fear politically to divide and recruit us. we all feel fear. but we can all avoid being recruited using the resources we have — our principles, unity, faith. yes, fear is part of the human condition, as well as being necessary for survival. but above all, it's the guide by which each of us builds our identity, our personality.it's true, i was 41 years old the first time i felt fear, and feeling fear was not my decision. but it was my decision what to do with that fear. you can survive crawling along, fearful. but you can also rise above the fear, rise up, spread your wings, and soar, fly high, high, high, high, until you reach the stars, where all of us want to go.thank you. <title = "The stories behind The New Yorker's iconic covers">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'art', 'creativity', 'culture', 'design', 'humor']">
<occupation = "Art editor">
so 24 years ago, i was brought to the new yorker as art editor to rejuvenate what had by then become a somewhat staid institution and to bring in new artists and to try to bring the magazine from its ivory tower into engaging with its time. and it was just the right thing for me to do because i've always been captivated by how an image can — a simple drawing — can cut through the torrent of images that we see every single day. how it can capture a moment, how it can crystallize a social trend or a complex event in a way that a lot of words wouldn't be able to do — and reduce it to its essence and turn it into a cartoon.so i went to the library and i looked at the first cover drawn by rea irvin in 1925 — a dandy looking at a butterfly through his monocle, and we call it eustace tilley. and i realized that as the magazine had become known for its in-depth research and long reports, some of the humor had gotten lost along the way, because now often eustace tilley was seen as a haughty dandy, but in fact, in 1925, when rea irvin first drew this image, he did it as part of a humor magazine to amuse the youth of the era, which was the flappers of the roaring twenties. and in the library, i found the images that really captured the zeitgeist of the great depression. and it showed us not just how people dressed or what their cars looked like, but also what made them laugh, what their prejudices were. and you really got a sense of what it felt like to be alive in the '30s.so i called on contemporary artists, such as adrian tomine here. i often call on narrative artists — cartoonists, children's book authors — and i give them themes such as, you know, what it's like to be in the subway, or valentine's day, and they send me sketches. and once the sketches are approved by the editor, david remnick, it's a go. and i love the way those images are actually not telling you what to think. but they do make you think, because the artist is actually — it's almost a puzzle; the artist is drawing the dots, and you, the reader, have to complete the picture. so to get this image on the left by anita kunz, or the one on right by tomer hanuka, you have to play spot the differences. and it is something that ... it's really exciting to see how the engagement with the reader ... how those images really capture — play with the stereotypes. but when you get it, it rearranges the stereotypes that are in your head.but the images don't just have to show people, sometimes it can be a feeling. right after september 11, i was at a point, like everybody else, where i really didn't know how to deal with what we were going through, and i felt that no image could capture this moment, and i wanted to just do a black cover, like no cover. and i talked to my husband, cartoonist art spiegelman, and mentioned to him that i was going to propose that, and he said, "oh, if you're going to do a black cover, then why don't you do the silhouette of the twin towers, black on black?" and i sat down to draw this, and as soon as i saw it, a shiver ran down my spine and i realized that in this refusal to make an image, we had found a way to capture loss and mourning and absence. and it's been a profound thing that i learned in the process — that sometimes some of the images that say the most do it with the most spare means. and a simple image can speak volumes.so this is the image that we published by bob staake right after the election of barack obama, and captured a historic moment. but we can't really plan for this, because in order to do this, we have to let the artist experience the emotions that we all feel when that is happening. so back in november 2016, during the election last year, the only image that we could publish was this, which was on the stand on the week that everybody voted. because we knew somebody would feel this — when the result of the election was announced. and when we found out the result, we really were at a loss, and this is the image that was sent by bob staake again, and that really hit a chord. and again, we can't really figure out what's going to come next, but here it felt like we didn't know how to move forward, but we did move forward, and this is the image that we published after donald trump's election and at the time of the women's march all over the us.so over those 24 years, i have seen over 1,000 images come to life week after week, and i'm often asked which one is my favorite, but i can't pick one because what i'm most proud of is how different every image is, one from the other. and that's due to the talent and the diversity of all of the artists that contribute.and now, well, now, we're owned by russia, so — in a rendering by barry blitt here, eustace has become eustace vladimirovich tilley. and the butterfly is none other than a flabbergasted donald trump flapping his wings, trying to figure out how to control the butterfly effect, and the famed logo that was drawn by rae irvin in 1925 is now in cyrillic.so, what makes me really excited about this moment is the way that ... you know, free press is essential to our democracy. and we can see from the sublime to the ridiculous that artists can capture what is going on in a way that an artist armed with just india ink and watercolor can capture and enter into the cultural dialogue. it puts those artists at the center of that culture, and that's exactly where i think they should be. because the main thing we need right now is a good cartoon.thank you. <title = "How computers learn to recognize objects instantly">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'computers', 'sight', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Computer scientist">
ten years ago, computer vision researchers thought that getting a computer to tell the difference between a cat and a dog would be almost impossible, even with the significant advance in the state of artificial intelligence. now we can do it at a level greater than 99 percent accuracy. this is called image classification — give it an image, put a label to that image — and computers know thousands of other categories as well.i'm a graduate student at the university of washington, and i work on a project called darknet, which is a neural network framework for training and testing computer vision models. so let's just see what darknet thinks of this image that we have. when we run our classifier on this image, we see we don't just get a prediction of dog or cat, we actually get specific breed predictions. that's the level of granularity we have now. and it's correct. my dog is in fact a malamute.so we've made amazing strides in image classification, but what happens when we run our classifier on an image that looks like this? well ... we see that the classifier comes back with a pretty similar prediction. and it's correct, there is a malamute in the image, but just given this label, we don't actually know that much about what's going on in the image. we need something more powerful. i work on a problem called object detection, where we look at an image and try to find all of the objects, put bounding boxes around them and say what those objects are. so here's what happens when we run a detector on this image.now, with this kind of result, we can do a lot more with our computer vision algorithms. we see that it knows that there's a cat and a dog. it knows their relative locations, their size. it may even know some extra information. there's a book sitting in the background. and if you want to build a system on top of computer vision, say a self-driving vehicle or a robotic system, this is the kind of information that you want. you want something so that you can interact with the physical world. now, when i started working on object detection, it took 20 seconds to process a single image. and to get a feel for why speed is so important in this domain, here's an example of an object detector that takes two seconds to process an image. so this is 10 times faster than the 20-seconds-per-image detector, and you can see that by the time it makes predictions, the entire state of the world has changed, and this wouldn't be very useful for an application.if we speed this up by another factor of 10, this is a detector running at five frames per second. this is a lot better, but for example, if there's any significant movement, i wouldn't want a system like this driving my car.this is our detection system running in real time on my laptop. so it smoothly tracks me as i move around the frame, and it's robust to a wide variety of changes in size, pose, forward, backward. this is great. this is what we really need if we're going to build systems on top of computer vision. so in just a few years, we've gone from 20 seconds per image to 20 milliseconds per image, a thousand times faster. how did we get there? well, in the past, object detection systems would take an image like this and split it into a bunch of regions and then run a classifier on each of these regions, and high scores for that classifier would be considered detections in the image. but this involved running a classifier thousands of times over an image, thousands of neural network evaluations to produce detection. instead, we trained a single network to do all of detection for us. it produces all of the bounding boxes and class probabilities simultaneously. with our system, instead of looking at an image thousands of times to produce detection, you only look once, and that's why we call it the yolo method of object detection. so with this speed, we're not just limited to images; we can process video in real time. and now, instead of just seeing that cat and dog, we can see them move around and interact with each other.this is a detector that we trained on 80 different classes in microsoft's coco dataset. it has all sorts of things like spoon and fork, bowl, common objects like that. it has a variety of more exotic things: animals, cars, zebras, giraffes. and now we're going to do something fun. we're just going to go out into the audience and see what kind of things we can detect. does anyone want a stuffed animal? there are some teddy bears out there. and we can turn down our threshold for detection a little bit, so we can find more of you guys out in the audience. let's see if we can get these stop signs. we find some backpacks. let's just zoom in a little bit. and this is great. and all of the processing is happening in real time on the laptop.and it's important to remember that this is a general purpose object detection system, so we can train this for any image domain. the same code that we use to find stop signs or pedestrians, bicycles in a self-driving vehicle, can be used to find cancer cells in a tissue biopsy. and there are researchers around the globe already using this technology for advances in things like medicine, robotics. this morning, i read a paper where they were taking a census of animals in nairobi national park with yolo as part of this detection system. and that's because darknet is open source and in the public domain, free for anyone to use. but we wanted to make detection even more accessible and usable, so through a combination of model optimization, network binarization and approximation, we actually have object detection running on a phone. and i'm really excited because now we have a pretty powerful solution to this low-level computer vision problem, and anyone can take it and build something with it. so now the rest is up to all of you and people around the world with access to this software, and i can't wait to see what people will build with this technology.thank you. <title = "How AI can enhance our memory, work and social lives">
<tags = "['AI', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'intelligence', 'machine learning', 'product design', 'technology']">
<occupation = "AI product designer">
i'm here to offer you a new way to think about my field, artificial intelligence. i think the purpose of ai is to empower humans with machine intelligence. and as machines get smarter, we get smarter. i call this "humanistic ai" — artificial intelligence designed to meet human needs by collaborating and augmenting people. now, today i'm happy to see that the idea of an intelligent assistant is mainstream. it's the well-accepted metaphor for the interface between humans and ai. and the one i helped create is called siri.you know siri. siri is the thing that knows your intent and helps you do it for you, helps you get things done. but what you might not know is that we designed siri as humanistic ai, to augment people with a conversational interface that made it possible for them to use mobile computing, regardless of who they were and their abilities.now for most of us, the impact of this technology is to make things a little bit easier to use. but for my friend daniel, the impact of the ai in these systems is a life changer. you see, daniel is a really social guy, and he's blind and quadriplegic, which makes it hard to use those devices that we all take for granted. the last time i was at his house, his brother said, "hang on a second, daniel's not ready. he's on the phone with a woman he met online." i'm like, "that's cool, how'd he do it?" well, daniel uses siri to manage his own social life — his email, text and phone — without depending on his caregivers. this is kind of interesting, right? the irony here is great. here's the man whose relationship with ai helps him have relationships with genuine human beings. and this is humanistic ai.another example with life-changing consequences is diagnosing cancer. when a doctor suspects cancer, they take a sample and send it to a pathologist, who looks at it under a microscope. now, pathologists look at hundreds of slides and millions of cells every day. so to support this task, some researchers made an ai classifier. now, the classifier says, "is this cancer or is this not cancer?" looking at the pictures. the classifier was pretty good, but not as good as the person, who got it right most of the time.but when they combine the ability of the machine and the human together, accuracy went to 99.5 percent. adding that ai to a partnership eliminated 85 percent of the errors that the human pathologist would have made working alone. that's a lot of cancer that would have otherwise gone untreated. now, for the curious, it turns out that the human was better at rejecting false positives, and the machine was better at recognizing those hard-to-spot cases. but the lesson here isn't about which agent is better at this image-classification task. those things are changing every day. the lesson here is that by combining the abilities of the human and machine, it created a partnership that had superhuman performance. and that is humanistic ai.now let's look at another example with turbocharging performance. this is design. now, let's say you're an engineer. you want to design a new frame for a drone. you get out your favorite software tools, cad tools, and you enter the form and the materials, and then you analyze performance. that gives you one design. if you give those same tools to an ai, it can generate thousands of designs.this video by autodesk is amazing. this is real stuff. so this transforms how we do design. the human engineer now says what the design should achieve, and the machine says, "here's the possibilities." now in her job, the engineer's job is to pick the one that best meets the goals of the design, which she knows as a human better than anyone else, using human judgment and expertise. in this case, the winning form looks kind of like something nature would have designed, minus a few million years of evolution and all that unnecessary fur.now let's see where this idea of humanistic ai might lead us if we follow it into the speculative beyond. what's a kind of augmentation that we would all like to have? well, how about cognitive enhancement? instead of asking, "how smart can we make our machines?" let's ask "how smart can our machines make us?" i mean, take memory for example. memory is the foundation of human intelligence. but human memory is famously flawed. we're great at telling stories, but not getting the details right. and our memories — they decay over time. i mean, like, where did the '60s go, and can i go there, too? but what if you could have a memory that was as good as computer memory, and was about your life? what if you could remember every person you ever met, how to pronounce their name, their family details, their favorite sports, the last conversation you had with them? if you had this memory all your life, you could have the ai look at all the interactions you had with people over time and help you reflect on the long arc of your relationships. what if you could have the ai read everything you've ever read and listen to every song you've ever heard? from the tiniest clue, it could help you retrieve anything you've ever seen or heard before. imagine what that would do for the ability to make new connections and form new ideas.and what about our bodies? what if we could remember the consequences of every food we eat, every pill we take, every all-nighter we pull? we could do our own science on our own data about what makes us feel good and stay healthy. and imagine how this could revolutionize the way we manage allergies and chronic disease.i believe that ai will make personal memory enhancement a reality. i can't say when or what form factors are involved, but i think it's inevitable, because the very things that make ai successful today — the availability of comprehensive data and the ability for machines to make sense of that data — can be applied to the data of our lives. and those data are here today, available for all of us, because we lead digitally mediated lives, in mobile and online.in my view, a personal memory is a private memory. we get to choose what is and is not recalled and retained. it's absolutely essential that this be kept very secure.now for most of us, the impact of augmented personal memory will be a more improved mental gain, maybe, hopefully, a bit more social grace. but for the millions who suffer from alzheimer's and dementia, the difference that augmented memory could make is a difference between a life of isolation and a life of dignity and connection.we are in the middle of a renaissance in artificial intelligence right now. i mean, in just the past few years, we're beginning to see solutions to ai problems that we have struggled with literally for decades: speech understanding, text understanding, image understanding. we have a choice in how we use this powerful technology. we can choose to use ai to automate and compete with us, or we can use ai to augment and collaborate with us, to overcome our cognitive limitations and to help us do what we want to do, only better. and as we discover new ways to give machines intelligence, we can distribute that intelligence to all of the ai assistants in the world, and therefore to every person, regardless of circumstance. and that is why, every time a machine gets smarter, we get smarter.that is an ai worth spreading.thank you. <title = "How your brain decides what is beautiful">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'beauty', 'brain', 'cognitive science', 'evolution', 'evolutionary psychology', 'humanity', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'science', 'science and art']">
<occupation = "Cognitive neuroscientist">
it's 1878. sir francis galton gives a remarkable talk. he's speaking to the anthropologic institute of great britain and ireland. known for his pioneering work in human intelligence, galton is a brilliant polymath. he's an explorer, an anthropologist, a sociologist, a psychologist and a statistician. he's also a eugenist. in this talk, he presents a new technique by which he can combine photographs and produce composite portraits. this technique could be used to characterize different types of people. galton thinks that if he combines photographs of violent criminals, he will discover the face of criminality. but to his surprise, the composite portrait that he produces is beautiful.galton's surprising finding raises deep questions: what is beauty? why do certain configurations of line and color and form excite us so? for most of human history, these questions have been approached using logic and speculation. but in the last few decades, scientists have addressed the question of beauty using ideas from evolutionary psychology and tools of neuroscience. we're beginning to glimpse the why and the how of beauty, at least in terms of what it means for the human face and form. and in the process, we're stumbling upon some surprises.when it comes to seeing beauty in each other, while this decision is certainly subjective for the individual, it's sculpted by factors that contribute to the survival of the group. many experiments have shown that a few basic parameters contribute to what makes a face attractive. these include averaging, symmetry and the effects of hormones. let's take each one of these in turn.galton's finding that composite or average faces are typically more attractive than each individual face that contributes to the average has been replicated many times. this laboratory finding fits with many people's intuitions. average faces represent the central tendencies of a group. people with mixed features represent different populations, and presumably harbor greater genetic diversity and adaptability to the environment. many people find mixed-race individuals attractive and inbred families less so.the second factor that contributes to beauty is symmetry. people generally find symmetric faces more attractive than asymmetric ones. developmental abnormalities are often associated with asymmetries. and in plants, animals and humans, asymmetries often arise from parasitic infections. symmetry, it turns out, is also an indicator of health. in the 1930s, a man named maksymilian faktorowicz recognized the importance of symmetry for beauty when he designed the beauty micrometer. with this device, he could measure minor asymmetric flaws which he could then make up for with products he sold from his company, named brilliantly after himself, max factor, which, as you know, is one of the world's most famous brands for "make up."the third factor that contributes to facial attractiveness is the effect of hormones. and here, i need to apologize for confining my comments to heterosexual norms. but estrogen and testosterone play important roles in shaping features that we find attractive. estrogen produces features that signal fertility. men typically find women attractive who have elements of both youth and maturity. a face that's too baby-like might mean that the girl is not yet fertile, so men find women attractive who have large eyes, full lips and narrow chins as indicators of youth, and high cheekbones as an indicator of maturity.testosterone produces features that we regard as typically masculine. these include heavier brows, thinner cheeks and bigger, squared-off jaws. but here's a fascinating irony. in many species, if anything, testosterone suppresses the immune system. so the idea that testosterone-infused features are a fitness indicator doesn't really make a whole lot of sense. here, the logic is turned on its head. instead of a fitness indicator, scientists invoke a handicap principle.the most commonly cited example of a handicap is the peacock's tail. this beautiful but cumbersome tail doesn't exactly help the peacock avoid predators and approach peahens. why should such an extravagant appendage evolve? even charles darwin, in an 1860 letter to asa gray wrote that the sight of the peacock's tail made him physically ill. he couldn't explain it with his theory of natural selection, and out of this frustration, he developed the theory of sexual selection.on this account, the display of the peacock's tail is about sexual enticement, and this enticement means it's more likely the peacock will mate and have offspring. now, the modern twist on this display argument is that the peacock is also advertising its health to the peahen. only especially fit organisms can afford to divert resources to maintaining such an extravagant appendage. only especially fit men can afford the price that testosterone levies on their immune system. and by analogy, think of the fact that only very rich men can afford to pay more than $10,000 for a watch as a display of their financial fitness.now, many people hear these kinds of evolutionary claims and think they mean that we somehow are unconsciously seeking mates who are healthy. and i think this idea is probably not right. teenagers and young adults are not exactly known for making decisions that are predicated on health concerns. but they don't have to be, and let me explain why.imagine a population in which people have three different kinds of preferences: for green, for orange and for red. from their point of view, these preferences have nothing to do with health; they just like what they like. but if it were also the case that these preferences are associated with the different likelihood of producing offspring — let's say in a ratio of 3:2:1 — then in the first generation, there would be 3 greens to 2 oranges to 1 red, and in each subsequent generation, the proportion of greens increase, so that in 10 generations, 98 percent of this population has a green preference. now, a scientist coming in and sampling this population discovers that green preferences are universal. so the point about this little abstract example is that while preferences for specific physical features can be arbitrary for the individual, if those features are heritable and they are associated with a reproductive advantage, over time, they become universal for the group.so what happens in the brain when we see beautiful people? attractive faces activate parts of our visual cortex in the back of the brain, an area called the fusiform gyrus, that is especially tuned to processing faces, and an adjacent area called the lateral occipital complex, that is especially attuned to processing objects. in addition, attractive faces activate parts of our reward and pleasure centers in the front and deep in the brain, and these include areas that have complicated names, like the ventral striatum, the orbitofrontal cortex and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex. our visual brain that is tuned to processing faces interacts with our pleasure centers to underpin the experience of beauty.amazingly, while we all engage with beauty, without our knowledge, beauty also engages us. our brains respond to attractive faces even when we're not thinking about beauty. we conducted an experiment in which people saw a series of faces, and in one condition, they had to decide if a pair of faces were the same or a different person. even in this condition, attractive faces drove neural activity robustly in their visual cortex, despite the fact that they were thinking about a person's identity and not their beauty. another group similarly found automatic responses to beauty within our pleasure centers. taken together, these studies suggest that our brain automatically responds to beauty by linking vision and pleasure. these beauty detectors, it seems, ping every time we see beauty, regardless of whatever else we might be thinking.we also have a "beauty is good" stereotype embedded in the brain. within the orbitofrontal cortex, there's overlapping neural activity in response to beauty and to goodness, and this happens even when people aren't explicitly thinking about beauty or goodness. our brains seem to reflexively associate beauty and good. and this reflexive association may be the biologic trigger for the many social effects of beauty. attractive people receive all kinds of advantages in life. they're regarded as more intelligent, more trustworthy, they're given higher pay and lesser punishments, even when such judgments are not warranted.these kinds of observations reveal beauty's ugly side. in my lab, we recently found that people with minor facial anomalies and disfigurements are regarded as less good, less kind, less intelligent, less competent and less hardworking. unfortunately, we also have a "disfigured is bad" stereotype. this stereotype is probably exploited and magnified by images in popular media, in which facial disfigurement is often used as a shorthand to depict someone of villainous character. we need to understand these kinds of implicit biases if we are to overcome them and aim for a society in which we treat people fairly, based on their behavior and not on the happenstance of their looks.let me leave you with one final thought. beauty is a work in progress. the so-called universal attributes of beauty were selected for during the almost two million years of the pleistocene. life was nasty, brutish and a very long time ago. the selection criteria for reproductive success from that time doesn't really apply today.for example, death by parasite is not one of the top ways that people die, at least not in the technologically developed world. from antibiotics to surgery, birth control to in vitro fertilization, the filters for reproductive success are being relaxed. and under these relaxed conditions, preference and trait combinations are free to drift and become more variable. even as we are profoundly affecting our environment, modern medicine and technological innovation is profoundly affecting the very essence of what it means to look beautiful. the universal nature of beauty is changing even as we're changing the universe.thank you. <title = "Let's end ageism">
<tags = "['aging', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Author, activist">
what's one thing that every person in this room is going to become? older. and most of us are scared stiff at the prospect. how does that word make you feel? i used to feel the same way. what was i most worried about? ending up drooling in some grim institutional hallway. and then i learned that only four percent of older americans are living in nursing homes, and the percentage is dropping. what else was i worried about? dementia. turns out that most of us can think just fine to the end. dementia rates are dropping, too. the real epidemic is anxiety over memory loss. i also figured that old people were depressed because they were old and they were going to die soon. it turns out that the longer people live, the less they fear dying, and that people are happiest at the beginnings and the end of their lives. it's called the u-curve of happiness, and it's been borne out by dozens of studies around the world. you don't have to be a buddhist or a billionaire. the curve is a function of the way aging itself affects the brain.so i started feeling a lot better about getting older, and i started obsessing about why so few people know these things. the reason is ageism: discrimination and stereotyping on the basis of age. we experience it anytime someone assumes we're too old for something, instead of finding out who we are and what we're capable of, or too young. ageism cuts both ways. all -isms are socially constructed ideas — racism, sexism, homophobia — and that means we make them up, and they can change over time. all these prejudices pit us against each other to maintain the status quo, like auto workers in the us competing against auto workers in mexico instead of organizing for better wages. we know it's not ok to allocate resources by race or by sex. why should it be ok to weigh the needs of the young against the old? all prejudice relies on "othering" — seeing a group of people as other than ourselves: other race, other religion, other nationality. the strange thing about ageism: that other is us. ageism feeds on denial — our reluctance to acknowledge that we are going to become that older person. it's denial when we try to pass for younger or when we believe in anti-aging products, or when we feel like our bodies are betraying us, simply because they are changing. why on earth do we stop celebrating the ability to adapt and grow as we move through life? why should aging well mean struggling to look and move like younger versions of ourselves? it's embarrassing to be called out as older until we quit being embarrassed about it, and it's not healthy to go through life dreading our futures. the sooner we get off this hamster wheel of age denial, the better off we are.stereotypes are always a mistake, of course, but especially when it comes to age, because the longer we live, the more different from one another we become. right? think about it. and yet, we tend to think of everyone in a retirement home as the same age: old — when they can span four decades. can you imagine thinking that way about a group of people between the ages of 20 and 60?when you get to a party, do you head for people your own age? have you ever grumbled about entitled millennials? have you ever rejected a haircut or a relationship or an outing because it's not age-appropriate? for adults, there's no such thing. all these behaviors are ageist. we all do them, and we can't challenge bias unless we're aware of it. nobody's born ageist, but it starts at early childhood, around the same time attitudes towards race and gender start to form, because negative messages about late life bombard us from the media and popular culture at every turn. right? wrinkles are ugly. old people are pathetic. it's sad to be old.look at hollywood. a survey of recent best picture nominations found that only 12 percent of speaking or named characters were age 60 and up, and many of them were portrayed as impaired. older people can be the most ageist of all, because we've had a lifetime to internalize these messages and we've never thought to challenge them. i had to acknowledge it and stop colluding. "senior moment" quips, for example: i stopped making them when it dawned on me that when i lost the car keys in high school, i didn't call it a "junior moment." i stopped blaming my sore knee on being 64. my other knee doesn't hurt, and it's just as old. we are all worried about some aspect of getting older, whether running out of money, getting sick, ending up alone, and those fears are legitimate and real. but what never dawns on most of us is that the experience of reaching old age can be better or worse depending on the culture in which it takes place. it is not having a vagina that makes life harder for women. it's sexism. it's not loving a man that makes life harder for gay guys. it's homophobia. and it is not the passage of time that makes getting older so much harder than it has to be. it is ageism. when labels are hard to read or there's no handrail or we can't open the damn jar, we blame ourselves, our failure to age successfully, instead of the ageism that makes those natural transitions shameful and the discrimination that makes those barriers acceptable. you can't make money off satisfaction, but shame and fear create markets, and capitalism always needs new markets. who says wrinkles are ugly? the multi-billion-dollar skin care industry. who says perimenopause and low t and mild cognitive impairment are medical conditions? the trillion-dollar pharmaceutical industry.(cheers)the more clearly we see these forces at work, the easier it is to come up with alternative, more positive and more accurate narratives. aging is not a problem to be fixed or a disease to be cured. it is a natural, powerful, lifelong process that unites us all.changing the culture is a tall order, i know that, but culture is fluid. look at how much the position of women has changed in my lifetime or the incredible strides that the gay rights movement has made in just a few decades, right? look at gender. we used to think of it as a binary, male or female, and now we understand it's a spectrum. it is high time to ditch the old-young binary, too. there is no line in the sand between old and young, after which it's all downhill. and the longer we wait to challenge that idea, the more damage it does to ourselves and our place in the world, like in the workforce, where age discrimination is rampant. in silicon valley, engineers are getting botoxed and hair-plugged before key interviews — and these are skilled white men in their 30s, so imagine the effects further down the food chain. the personal and economic consequences are devastating. not one stereotype about older workers holds up under scrutiny. companies aren't adaptable and creative because their employees are young; they're adaptable and creative despite it. companies — we know that diverse companies aren't just better places to work; they work better. and just like race and sex, age is a criterion for diversity.a growing body of fascinating research shows that attitudes towards aging affect how our minds and bodies function at the cellular level. when we talk to older people like this (speaks more loudly) or call them "sweetie" or "young lady" — it's called elderspeak — they appear to instantly age, walking and talking less competently. people with more positive feelings towards aging walk faster, they do better on memory tests, they heal quicker, and they live longer. even with brains full of plaques and tangles, some people stayed sharp to the end. what did they have in common? a sense of purpose. and what's the biggest obstacle to having a sense of purpose in late life? a culture that tells us that getting older means shuffling offstage. that's why the world health organization is developing a global anti-ageism initiative to extend not just life span but health span.women experience the double whammy of ageism and sexism, so we experience aging differently. there's a double standard at work here — shocker — the notion that aging enhances men and devalues women. women reinforce this double standard when we compete to stay young, another punishing and losing proposition. does any woman in this room really believe that she is a lesser version — less interesting, less fun in bed, less valuable — than the woman she once was? this discrimination affects our health, our well-being and our income, and the effects add up over time. they are further compounded by race and by class, which is why, everywhere in the world, the poorest of the poor are old women of color.what's the takeaway from that map? by 2050, one out of five of us, almost two billion people, will be age 60 and up. longevity is a fundamental hallmark of human progress. all these older people represent a vast unprecedented and untapped market. and yet, capitalism and urbanization have propelled age bias into every corner of the globe, from switzerland, where elders fare the best, to afghanistan, which sits at the bottom of the global agewatch index. half of the world's countries aren't mentioned on that list because we don't bother to collect data on millions of people because they're no longer young. almost two-thirds of people over 60 around the world say they have trouble accessing healthcare. almost three-quarters say their income doesn't cover basic services like food, water, electricity, and decent housing. is this the world we want our children, who may well live to be a hundred, to inherit? everyone — all ages, all genders, all nationalities — is old or future-old, and unless we put an end to it, ageism will oppress us all. and that makes it a perfect target for collective advocacy.why add another -ism to the list when so many, racism in particular, call out for action? here's the thing: we don't have to choose. when we make the world a better place to grow old in, we make it a better place in which to be from somewhere else, to have a disability, to be queer, to be non-rich, to be non-white. and when we show up at all ages for whatever cause matters most to us — save the whales, save the democracy — we not only make that effort more effective, we dismantle ageism in the process.longevity is here to stay. a movement to end ageism is underway. i'm in it, and i hope you will join me.(applause and cheers)thank you. let's do it! let's do it! <title = "You owe it to yourself to experience a total solar eclipse">
<tags = "['Moon', 'TEDx', 'astronomy', 'beauty', 'nature', 'science', 'solar system', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Science writer">
before i get to bulk of what i have to say, i feel compelled just to mention a couple of things about myself. i am not some mystical, spiritual sort of person. i'm a science writer. i studied physics in college. i used to be a science correspondent for npr. ok, that said: in the course of working on a story for npr, i got some advice from an astronomer that challenged my outlook, and frankly, changed my life.you see, the story was about an eclipse, a partial solar eclipse that was set to cross the country in may of 1994. and the astronomer — i interviewed him, and he explained what was going to happen and how to view it, but he emphasized that, as interesting as a partial solar eclipse is, a much rarer total solar eclipse is completely different. in a total eclipse, for all of two or three minutes, the moon completely blocks the face of the sun, creating what he described as the most awe-inspiring spectacle in all of nature. and so the advice he gave me was this: "before you die," he said, "you owe it to yourself to experience a total solar eclipse."well honestly, i felt a little uncomfortable hearing that from someone i didn't know very well; it felt sort of intimate. but it got my attention, and so i did some research. now the thing about total eclipses is, if you wait for one to come to you, you're going to be waiting a long time. any given point on earth experiences a total eclipse about once every 400 years. but if you're willing to travel, you don't have to wait that long. and so i learned that a few years later, in 1998, a total eclipse was going to cross the caribbean.now, a total eclipse is visible only along a narrow path, about a hundred miles wide, and that's where the moon's shadow falls. it's called the "path of totality." and in february 1998, the path of totality was going to cross aruba. so i talked to my husband, and we thought: february? aruba? sounded like a good idea anyway. so we headed south, to enjoy the sun and to see what would happen when the sun briefly went away.well, the day of the eclipse found us and many other people out behind the hyatt regency, on the beach, waiting for the show to begin. and we wore eclipse glasses with cardboard frames and really dark lenses that enabled us to look at the sun safely. a total eclipse begins as a partial eclipse, as the moon very slowly makes its way in front of the sun. so first it looked the sun had a little notch in its edge, and then that notch grew larger and larger, turning the sun into a crescent. and it was all very interesting, but i wouldn't say it was spectacular. i mean, the day remained bright. if i hadn't known what was going on overhead, i wouldn't have noticed anything unusual.well, about 10 minutes before the total solar eclipse was set to begin, weird things started to happen. a cool wind kicked up. daylight looked odd, and shadows became very strange; they looked bizarrely sharp, as if someone had turned up the contrast knob on the tv. then i looked offshore, and i noticed running lights on boats, so clearly it was getting dark, although i hadn't realized it. well soon, it was obvious it was getting dark. it felt like my eyesight was failing.and then all of a sudden, the lights went out. well, at that, a cheer erupted from the beach, and i took off my eclipse glasses, because at this point during the total eclipse, it was safe to look at the sun with the naked eye. and i glanced upward, and i was just dumbstruck.now, consider that, at this point, i was in my mid-30s. i had lived on earth long enough to know what the sky looks like. i mean — i'd seen blue skies and grey skies and starry skies and angry skies and pink skies at sunrise. but here was a sky i had never seen.first, there were the colors. up above, it was a deep purple-grey, like twilight. but on the horizon it was orange, like sunset, 360 degrees. and up above, in the twilight, bright stars and planets had come out. so there was jupiter and there was mercury and there was venus. they were all in a line.and there, along this line, was this thing, this glorious, bewildering thing. it looked like a wreath woven from silvery thread, and it just hung out there in space, shimmering. that was the sun's outer atmosphere, the solar corona. and pictures just don't do it justice. it's not just a ring or halo around the sun; it's finely textured, like it's made out of strands of silk. and although it looked nothing like our sun, of course, i knew that's what it was. so there was the sun, and there were the planets, and i could see how the planets revolve around the sun. it's like i had left our solar system and was standing on some alien world, looking back at creation.and for the first time in my life, i just felt viscerally connected to the universe in all of its immensity. time stopped, or it just kind of felt nonexistent, and what i beheld with my eyes — i didn't just see it, it felt like a vision. and i stood there in this nirvana for all of 174 seconds — less than three minutes — when all of a sudden, it was over. the sun burst out, the blue sky returned, the stars and the planets and the corona were gone. the world returned to normal. but i had changed.and that's how i became an umbraphile — an eclipse chaser. so, this is how i spend my time and hard-earned money. every couple of years, i head off to wherever the moon's shadow will fall to experience another couple minutes of cosmic bliss, and to share the experience with others: with friends in australia, with an entire city in germany. in 1999, in munich, i joined hundreds of thousands who filled the streets and the rooftops and cheered in unison as the solar corona emerged. and over time, i've become something else: an eclipse evangelist. i see it as my job to pay forward the advice that i received all those years ago. and so let me tell you: before you die, you owe it to yourself to experience a total solar eclipse. it is the ultimate experience of awe.now, that word, "awesome," has grown so overused that it's lost its original meaning. true awe, a sense of wonder and insignificance in the face of something enormous and grand, is rare in our lives. but when you experience it, it's powerful. awe dissolves the ego. it makes us feel connected. indeed, it promotes empathy and generosity. well, there is nothing truly more awesome than a total solar eclipse.unfortunately, few americans have seen one, because it's been 38 years since one last touched the continental united states and 99 years since one last crossed the breadth of the nation. but that is about to change. over the next 35 years, five total solar eclipses will visit the continental united states, and three of them will be especially grand. six weeks from now, on august 21, 2017 — the moon's shadow will race from oregon to south carolina. april 8, 2024, the moon's shadow heads north from texas to maine. in 2045, on august 12, the path cuts from california to florida.i say: what if we made these holidays? what if we — what if we all stood together, as many people as possible, in the shadow of the moon? just maybe, this shared experience of awe would help heal our divisions, get us to treat each other just a bit more humanely.now, admittedly, some folks consider my evangelizing a little out there; my obsession, eccentric. i mean, why focus so much attention on something so brief? why cross the globe — or state lines, for that matter — for something that lasts three minutes? as i said: i am not a spiritual person. i don't believe in god. i wish i did. but when i think of my own mortality — and i do, a lot — when i think of everyone i have lost, my mother in particular, what soothes me is that moment of awe i had in aruba. i picture myself on that beach, looking at that sky, and i remember how i felt. my existence may be temporary, but that's ok because, my gosh, look at what i'm a part of.and so this is a lesson i've learned, and it's one that applies to life in general: duration of experience does not equal impact. one weekend, one conversation — hell, one glance — can change everything. cherish those moments of deep connection with other people, with the natural world, and make them a priority. yes, i chase eclipses. you might chase something else. but it's not about the 174 seconds. it's about how they change the years that come after.thank you. <title = "A dance to honor Mother Earth">
<tags = "['art', 'creativity', 'dance', 'performance', 'performance art']">
<occupation = "Movement artist">
mother earth: our end was imminent yet finality relented. wind, water and fire gently revived; you and i reconciled, rhythms realigned, the blues gone green. your care in conserving in exchange for my fruit and replenishing this picturous restoring of painted skies, mountains rolling, forest covering — no more warming. the purity and simplicity of how we used to be.you remember me? all i give to humanity? housing, land, seas, birds, beast and all of mankind, exclusively the interface where you and the elements meet and vibrate harmoniously.(piano plays)(violin plays)(music)(music tempo quickens)(violin plays)(music)(violin plays)(music)(music ends) my beauty altered, muddied waters, fields stripped bare, interior scarred beyond repair, our memories eroding. you once obsessed over my frame and how i came to be; my nature, its polarity — how my sweet winds whisper softly, yet assault seas.you remember me? all i give to humanity? housing, land, seas, birds, beast and all of mankind — exclusively the interface where you and the elements meet and vibrate harmoniously.the unseen traveler forever passing, carrying life, moving, awning of earth felt and heard, strong and stirring, blowing. breathe you in, cleansing wind, gentle and still, quieter. the source eternally here, ascent and descending: air.rhythmic flow, fluid and graceful, waves of serenity, smooth strings of purity, rains replenishing rapidly, rivers of dreams, raging springs covering earth in abundance, universal solvent dissolving, drink, liquid, life and power: water.born when the universe was formed, warmed mankind, gave him light, colored rays illuminate ember flickers incandescent, powerful and brilliant. sacred son of air, father of fury, heat dancing vigorously between perfection and beauty. unconfined agility, fast and fancy, sparks of ingenuity rise: fire.(canku one star dances)(choir chants)(drums)(drumming and chanting)(drumming and chanting)(drumming and chanting)(music ends) (violin plays)(music)(music ends) <title = "Meet the microscopic life in your home -- and on your face">
<tags = "['bacteria', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'future', 'health', 'innovation', 'microbes', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Microbiologist, inventor and strategist">
i want you to touch your face. go on. what do you feel? soft? squishy? it's you, right? you're feeling you? well, it's not quite true. you're actually feeling thousands of microscopic creatures that live on our face and fingers. you're feeling some of the fungi that drifted down from the air ducts today. they set off our allergies and smell of mildew. you're feeling some of the 100 billion bacterial cells that live on our skin. they've been munching away at your skin oils and replicating, producing the smells of body odor. you're likely even touching the fecal bacteria that sprayed onto you the last time you flushed a toilet, or those bacteria that live in our water pipes and sprayed onto you with your last shower. sorry. you're probably even giving a microscopic high five to the two species of mites that live on our faces, on all of our faces. they've spent the night squirming across your face and having sex on the bridge of your nose. many of them are now leaking their gut contents onto your pores. now look at your finger. how's it feel? gross? in desperate need of soap or bleach? that's how you feel now, but it's not going to be how you feel in the future.for the last 100 years, we've had an adversarial relationship with the microscopic life nearest us. if i told you there was a bug in your house or bacteria in your sink, there was a human-devised solution for that, a product to eradicate, exterminate, disinfect. we strive to remove most of the microscopic life in our world now. but in doing so, we're ignoring the best source of new technology on this planet. the last 100 years have featured human solutions to microbial problems, but the next 100 years will feature microbial solutions to human problems.i'm a scientist, and i work with researchers at north carolina state university and the university of colorado to uncover the microscopic life that is nearest us, and that's often in our most intimate and boring environments, be it under our couches, in our backyards, or in our belly buttons. i do this work because it turns out that we know very little about the microscopic life that's nearest us. as of a few years ago, no scientist could tell you what bugs or microorganisms live in your home — your home, the place you know better than anywhere else.and so i and teams of others are armed with q-tips and tweezers and advanced dna techniques to uncover the microscopic life nearest us. in doing so, we found over 600 species of bugs that live in usa homes, everything from spiders and cockroaches to tiny mites that cling to feathers. and we found over 100,000 species of bacteria and fungi that live in our dust bunnies, thousands more that live on our clothes or in our showers. we've gone further still, and we looked at the microorganisms that live inside the bodies of each of those bugs in our home. in each bug, for example, a wasp, we see a microscopic jungle unfold in a petri plate, a world of hundreds of vibrant species. behold the biological cosmos! so many of the species you're looking at right now don't yet have names. most of the life around us remains unknown.i remember the first time i discovered and got to name a new species. it was a fungus that lives in the nest of a paper wasp. it's white and fluffy, and i named it "mucor nidicola," meaning in latin that it lives in the nest of another. this is a picture of it growing on a dinosaur, because everyone thinks dinosaurs are cool. at the time, i was in graduate school, and i was so excited that i had found this new life form. i called up my dad, and i go, "dad! i just discovered a new microorganism species." and he laughed and he goes, "that's great. i hope you also discovered a cure for it." "cure it."now, my dad is my biggest fan, so in that crushing moment where he wanted to kill my new little life form, i realized that actually i had failed him, both as a daughter and a scientist. in my years toiling away in labs and in people's backyards, investigating and cataloging the microscopic life around us, i'd never made clear my true mission to him. my goal is not to find technology to kill the new microscopic life around us. my goal is to find new technology from this life, that will help save us.the diversity of life in our homes is more than a list of 100,000 new species. it is 100,000 new sources of solutions to human problems. i know it's hard to believe that anything that's so small or only has one cell can do anything powerful, but they can. these creatures are microscopic alchemists, with the ability to transform their environment with an arsenal of chemical tools. this means that they can live anywhere on this planet, and they can eat whatever food is around them. this means they can eat everything from toxic waste to plastic, and they can produce waste products like oil and battery power and even tiny nuggets of real gold. they can transform the inedible into nutritive. they can make sugar into alcohol. they give chocolate its flavor, and soil the power to grow.i'm here to tell you that the next 100 years will feature these microscopic creatures solving more of our problems. and we have a lot of problems to choose from. we've got the mundane: bad-smelling clothes or bland food. and we've got the monumental: disease, pollution, war. and so this is my mission: to not just catalog the microscopic life around us, but to find out what it's uniquely well-suited to help us with.here's an example. we started with a pest, a wasp that lives on many of our homes. inside that wasp, we plucked out a little-known microorganism species with a unique ability: it could make beer. this is a trait that only a few species on this planet have. in fact, all commercially produced beer you've ever had likely came from one of only three microorganism species. yet our species, it could make a beer that tasted like honey, and it could also make a delightfully tart beer. in fact, this microorganism species that lives in the belly of a wasp, it could make a valuable sour beer better than any other species on this planet. there are now four species that produce commercial beer. where you used to see a pest, now think of tasting your future favorite beer.as a second example, i worked with researchers to dig in the dirt in people's backyards. there, we uncovered a microorganism that could make novel antibiotics, antibiotics that can kill the world's worst superbugs. this was an awesome thing to find, but here's the secret: for the last 60 years, most of the antibiotics on the market have come from similar soil bacteria. every day, you and i and everyone in this room and on this planet, are saved by similar soil bacteria that produce most of our antibiotics. where you used to see dirt, now think of medication.perhaps my favorite example comes from colleagues who are studying a pond scum microorganism, which is tragically named after the cow dung it was first found in. it's pretty unremarkable and would be unworthy of discussion, except that the researchers found that if you feed it to mice, it vaccinates against ptsd. it vaccinates against fear. where you used to see pond scum, now think of hope.there are so many more microbial examples that i don't have time to talk about today. i gave you examples of solutions that came from just three species, but imagine what those other 100,000 species in your dust bunnies might be able to do. in the future, they might be able to make you sexier or smarter or perhaps live longer.so i want you to look at your finger again. think about all those microscopic creatures that are unknown. think about in the future what they might be able to do or make or whose life they might be able to save. how does your finger feel right now? a little bit powerful? that's because you're feeling the future.thank you. <title = "Courage is contagious">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'activism', 'art', 'community', 'fear', 'film', 'inequality', 'protests', 'race', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Artist and filmmaker">
so, i'm afraid. right now, on this stage, i feel fear. in my life, i ain't met many people that will readily admit when they are afraid. and i think that's because deep down, they know how easy it spreads. see, fear is like a disease. when it moves, it moves like wildfire. but what happens when, even in the face of that fear, you do what you've got to do? that's called courage. and just like fear, courage is contagious.see, i'm from east st. louis, illinois. that's a small city across the mississippi river from st. louis, missouri. i have lived in and around st. louis my entire life. when michael brown, jr., an ordinary teenager, was gunned down by police in 2014 in ferguson, missouri — another suburb, but north of st. louis — i remember thinking, he ain't the first, and he won't be the last young kid to lose his life to law enforcement.but see, his death was different. when mike was killed, i remember the powers that be trying to use fear as a weapon. the police response to a community in mourning was to use force to impose fear: fear of militarized police, imprisonment, fines. the media even tried to make us afraid of each other by the way they spun the story. and all of these things have worked in the past. but like i said, this time it was different.michael brown's death and the subsequent treatment of the community led to a string of protests in and around ferguson and st. louis. when i got out to those protests about the fourth or fifth day, it was not out of courage; it was out of guilt. see, i'm black. i don't know if y'all noticed that. but i couldn't sit in st. louis, minutes away from ferguson, and not go see. so i got off my ass to go check it out.when i got out there, i found something surprising. i found anger; there was a lot of that. but what i found more of was love. people with love for themselves. love for their community. and it was beautiful — until the police showed up. then a new emotion was interjected into the conversation: fear.now, i'm not going to lie; when i saw those armored vehicles, and all that gear and all those guns and all those police i was terrified — personally. and when i looked around that crowd, i saw a lot of people that had the same thing going on. but i also saw people with something else inside of them. that was courage. see, those people yelled, and they screamed, and they were not about to back down from the police. they were past that point. and then i could feel something in me changing, so i yelled and i screamed, and i noticed that everybody around me was doing the same thing. and there was nothing like that feeling.so i decided i wanted to do something more. i went home, i thought: i'm an artist. i make shit. so i started making things specific to the protest, things that would be weapons in a spiritual war, things that would give people voice and things that would fortify them for the road ahead.i did a project where i took pictures of the hands of protesters and put them up and down the boarded-up buildings and community shops. my goal was to raise awareness and to raise the morale. and i think, for a minute at least, it did just that. then i thought, i want to uplift the stories of these people i was watching being courageous in the moment. and myself and my friend, and filmmaker and partner sabaah folayan did just that with our documentary, "whose streets?"i kind of became a conduit for all of this courage that was given to me. and i think that's part of our job as artists. i think we should be conveyors of courage in the work that we do. and i think that we are the wall between the normal folks and the people that use their power to spread fear and hate, especially in times like these.so i'm going to ask you. y'all the movers and the shakers, you know, the thought leaders: what are you gonna do with the gifts that you've been given to break us from the fear the binds us every day?because, see, i'm afraid every day. i can't remember a time when i wasn't. but once i figured out that fear was not put in me to cripple me, it was there to protect me, and once i figured out how to use that fear, i found my power.thank you. <title = "How boredom can lead to your most brilliant ideas">
<tags = "['brain', 'cognitive science', 'communication', 'creativity', 'entertainment', 'personal growth', 'social media']">
<occupation = "Tech podcaster">
my son and the iphone were born three weeks apart in june 2007. so while those early adopters were lined up outside, waiting to get their hands on this amazing new gadget, i was stuck at home with my hands full of something else that was sending out constant notifications — a miserable, colicky baby who would only sleep in a moving stroller with complete silence. i literally was walking 10 to 15 miles a day, and the baby weight came off. that part was great.but man, was i bored. before motherhood, i had been a journalist who rushed off when the concorde crashed. i was one of the first people into belgrade when there was a revolution in serbia. now, i was exhausted. this walking went on for weeks. it was only until about three months in that something shifted, though. as i pounded the pavement, my mind started to wander, too. i began imagining what i would do when i finally did sleep again.so the colic did fade, and i finally got an iphone and i put all those hours of wandering into action. i created my dream job hosting a public radio show. so there was no more rushing off to war zones, but thanks to my new smartphone, i could be a mother and a journalist. i could be on the playground and on twitter at the same time. yeah, well, when i thought that, when the technology came in and took over, that is when i hit a wall.so, i want you to picture this: you host a podcast, and you have to prove that the investment of precious public radio dollars in you is worth it. my goal was to increase my audience size tenfold. so one day, i sat down to brainstorm, as you do, and i came up barren. this was different than writer's block, right? it wasn't like there was something there waiting to be unearthed. there was just nothing. and so i started to think back: when was the last time i actually had a good idea? yeah, it was when i was pushing that damn stroller. now all the cracks in my day were filled with phone time. i checked the headlines while i waited for my latte. i updated my calendar while i was sitting on the couch. texting turned every spare moment into a chance to show to my coworkers and my dear husband what a responsive person i was, or at least it was a chance to find another perfect couch for my page on pinterest. i realized that i was never bored. and anyway, don't only boring people get bored?but then i started to wonder: what actually happens to us when we get bored? or, more importantly: what happens to us if we never get bored? and what could happen if we got rid of this human emotion entirely? i started talking to neuroscientists and cognitive psychologists, and what they told me was fascinating. it turns out that when you get bored, you ignite a network in your brain called the "default mode." so our body, it goes on autopilot while we're folding the laundry or we're walking to work, but actually that is when our brain gets really busy. here's boredom researcher dr. sandi mann.(audio) dr. sandi mann: once you start daydreaming and allow your mind to really wander, you start thinking a little bit beyond the conscious, a little bit into the subconscious, which allows sort of different connections to take place. it's really awesome, actually.manoush zomorodi: totally awesome, right?so this is my brain in an fmri, and i learned that in the default mode is when we connect disparate ideas, we solve some of our most nagging problems, and we do something called "autobiographical planning." this is when we look back at our lives, we take note of the big moments, we create a personal narrative, and then we set goals and we figure out what steps we need to take to reach them. but now we chill out on the couch also while updating a google doc or replying to email. we call it "getting shit done," but here's what neuroscientist dr. daniel levitin says we're actually doing.(audio) dr. daniel levitin: every time you shift your attention from one thing to another, the brain has to engage a neurochemical switch that uses up nutrients in the brain to accomplish that. so if you're attempting to multitask, you know, doing four or five things at once, you're not actually doing four or five things at once, because the brain doesn't work that way. instead, you're rapidly shifting from one thing to the next, depleting neural resources as you go.(audio) mz: so switch, switch, switch, you're using glucose, glucose, glucose.(audio) dl: exactly right, and we have a limited supply of that stuff.mz: a decade ago, we shifted our attention at work every three minutes. now we do it every 45 seconds, and we do it all day long. the average person checks email 74 times a day, and switches tasks on their computer 566 times a day. i discovered all this talking to professor of informatics, dr. gloria mark.(audio) dr. gloria mark: so we find that when people are stressed, they tend to shift their attention more rapidly. we also found, strangely enough, that the shorter the amount of sleep that a person gets, the more likely they are to check facebook. so we're in this vicious, habitual cycle.mz: but could this cycle be broken? what would happen if we broke this vicious cycle? maybe my listeners could help me find out. what if we reclaimed those cracks in our day? could it help us jump-start our creativity? we called the project "bored and brilliant." and i expected, you know, a couple hundred people to play along, but thousands of people started signing up. and they told me the reason they were doing it was because they were worried that their relationship with their phone had grown kind of ... "codependent," shall we say.(audio) man: the relationship between a baby and its teddy bear or a baby and its binky or a baby that wants its mother's cradle when it's done with being held by a stranger —(laughs)that's the relationship between me and my phone.(audio) woman: i think of my phone like a power tool: extremely useful, but dangerous if i'm not handling it properly.(audio) woman 2: if i don't pay close attention, i'll suddenly realize that i've lost an hour of time doing something totally mindless.mz: ok, but to really measure any improvement, we needed data, right? because that's what we do these days. so we partnered with some apps that would measure how much time we were spending every day on our phone. if you're thinking it's ironic that i asked people to download another app so that they would spend less time on their phones: yeah, but you gotta meet people where they are. so before challenge week, we were averaging two hours a day on our phones and 60 pickups, you know, like, a quick check, did i get a new email? here's what tina, a student at bard college, discovered about herself.(audio) tina: so far, i've been spending between 150 and 200 minutes on my phone per day, and i've been picking up my phone 70 to 100 times per day. and it's really concerning, because that's so much time that i could have spent doing something more productive, more creative, more towards myself, because when i'm on my phone, i'm not doing anything important.mz: like tina, people were starting to observe their own behavior. they were getting ready for challenge week. and that monday, they started to wake up to instructions in their inbox, an experiment to try.day one: "put it in your pocket." take that phone out of your hand. see if you can eliminate the reflex to check it all day long, just for a day. and if this sounds easy, you haven't tried it. here's listener amanda itzko.(audio) amanda itzko: i am absolutely itching. i feel a little bit crazy, because i have noticed that i pick up my phone when i'm just walking from one room to another, getting on the elevator, and even — and this is the part that i am really embarrassed to actually say out loud — in the car.mz: yikes. yeah, well, but as amanda learned, this itching feeling is not actually her fault. that is exactly the behavior that the technology is built to trigger. i mean, right? here's former google designer, tristan harris.(audio) tristan harris: if i'm facebook or i'm netflix or i'm snapchat, i have literally a thousand engineers whose job is to get more attention from you. i'm very good at this, and i don't want you to ever stop. and you know, the ceo of netflix recently said, "our biggest competitors are facebook, youtube and sleep." i mean, so there's a million places to spend your attention, but there's a war going on to get it.mz: i mean, you know the feeling: that amazing episode of "transparent" ends, and then the next one starts playing so you're like, eh, ok fine, i'll just stay up and watch it. or the linkedin progress bar says you are this close to having the perfect profile, so you add a little more personal information. as one ux designer told me, the only people who refer to their customers as "users" are drug dealers and technologists. and users, as we know, are worth a lot of money. here's former facebook product manager and author, antonio garcía martínez.(audio) antonio garcía martínez: the saying is, if any product is free then you're the product; your attention is the product. but what is your attention worth? that's why literally every time you load a page, not just on facebook or any app, there's an auction being held instantly, billions of times a day, for exactly how much that one ad impression cost.mz: by the way, the average person will spend two years of their life on facebook. so, back to challenge week. immediately, we saw some creativity kick in. here's new yorker lisa alpert.(audio) lisa alpert: i was bored, i guess. so i suddenly looked at the stairway that went up to the top of the station, and i thought, you know, i had just come down that stairway, but i could go back up and then come back down and get a little cardio. so i did, and then i had a little more time, so i did it again and i did it again, and i did it 10 times. and i had a complete cardio workout. i got on that r train feeling kind of exhausted, but, like, wow, that had never occurred to me. how is that possible? mz: so creativity, i learned, means different things to different people. but everyone found day three's challenge the hardest. it was called "delete that app." take that app — you know the one; that one that always gets you, it sucks you in — take it off your phone, even if just for the day. i deleted the game two dots and nearly cried. yeah, two dots players know what i'm talking about. but my misery had good company.(audio) man 2: this is liam in los angeles, and i deleted twitter, facebook, instagram, tumblr, snapchat and vine from my phone in one fell swoop. and it was kind of an embarrassingly emotional experience at first. it felt weirdly lonely to look at that lock screen with no new notifications on it. but i really liked deciding for myself when to think about or access my social networks, not giving my phone the power to decide that for me. so thank you.(audio) woman 3: deleting the twitter app was very sad, and i feel i maybe, over the last year when i've been on twitter, have developed an addiction to it, and this "bored and brilliant" challenge has really made me realize it. after a brief period of really horrible withdrawal feeling, like lack-of-caffeine headache, i now feel lovely. i had a lovely dinner with my family, and i hope to continue this structured use of these powerful tools.(audio) woman 4: i don't have that guilty gut feeling i have when i know i'm wasting time on my phone. maybe i'll have to start giving myself challenges and reminders like this every morning.mz: i mean, yes, this was progress. i could not wait to see what the numbers said at the end of that week. but when the data came in, it turned out that we had cut down, on average, just six minutes — from 120 minutes a day on our phones to 114. yeah. whoop-de-do.so i went back to the scientists feeling kind of low, and they just laughed at me, and they said, you know, changing people's behavior in such a short time period was ridiculously ambitious, and actually what you've achieved is far beyond what we thought possible. because more important than the numbers, were the people's stories. they felt empowered. their phones had been transformed from taskmasters back into tools.and actually, i found what the young people said most intriguing. some of them told me that they didn't recognize some of the emotions that they felt during challenge week, because, if you think about it, if you have never known life without connectivity, you may never have experienced boredom. and there could be consequences. researchers at usc have found — they're studying teenagers who are on social media while they're talking to their friends or they're doing homework, and two years down the road, they are less creative and imaginative about their own personal futures and about solving societal problems, like violence in their neighborhoods. and we really need this next generation to be able to focus on some big problems: climate change, economic disparity, massive cultural differences. no wonder ceos in an ibm survey identified creativity as the number one leadership competency.ok, here's the good news, though: in the end, 20,000 people did "bored and brilliant" that week. ninety percent cut down on their minutes. seventy percent got more time to think. people told me that they slept better. they felt happier. my favorite note was from a guy who said he felt like he was waking up from a mental hibernation.some personal data and some neuroscience gave us permission to be offline a little bit more, and a little bit of boredom gave us some clarity and helped some of us set some goals. i mean, maybe constant connectivity won't be cool in a couple of years. but meanwhile, teaching people, especially kids, how to use technology to improve their lives and to self-regulate needs to be part of digital literacy.so the next time you go to check your phone, remember that if you don't decide how you're going to use the technology, the platforms will decide for you. and ask yourself: what am i really looking for? because if it's to check email, that's fine — do it and be done. but if it's to distract yourself from doing the hard work that comes with deeper thinking, take a break, stare out the window and know that by doing nothing you are actually being your most productive and creative self. it might feel weird and uncomfortable at first, but boredom truly can lead to brilliance.thank you. <title = "How I help free innocent people from prison">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'TEDx', 'United States', 'inequality', 'law', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Clinical professor of law">
so, imagine that you take a 19-hour, very long drive to disney world, with two kids in the back seat. and 15 minutes into this 19-hour trip, the immutable laws of nature dictate that you get the question: "are we there yet?" so you answer this question a hundred more times, easily, in the negative, but you finally arrive. you have a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful trip. you drive 19 long hours back home. and when you get there, the police are waiting on you. they accuse you of committing a crime that occurred while you were away in florida. you tell anybody and everybody who will listen, "i didn't do it! i couldn't have done it! i was hanging out with mickey and minnie and my kids!" but no one believes you. ultimately, you're arrested, you're tried, you're convicted and you are sentenced. and you spend 25 years in jail, until someone comes along and proves — has the evidence to prove — that you actually were in florida when this crime was committed. so.so, i'm a harvard law professor, and the last several years, i have worked on winning the release of innocent people who've been wrongfully convicted — people like jonathan fleming, who spent 24 years, eight months in jail for a murder that was committed in brooklyn, new york, while he was in disney world with his kids. how do we know this? because when he was arrested, among his property in his back pocket was a receipt — time-stamped receipt that showed that he was in disney world. that receipt was put in the police file, a copy of it was put in the prosecutor's file, and they never gave it to his public defender. in fact, nobody even knew it was there. it just sat there for 20-some-odd years. my team looked through the file, and we found it, did the rest of the investigation, and figured out someone else committed the crime. mr. fleming was in disney world, and he is now released.let me give you a little bit of context. so about three years ago, i got a call from the brooklyn district attorney. he asked whether i'd be interested in designing a program called a "conviction review unit." so i said yes. a conviction review unit is essentially a unit in a prosecutor's office where prosecutors look at their past cases to determine whether or not they made mistakes. over the course of the first year, we found about 13 wrongful convictions, people having been in jail for decades, and we released all of them. it was the most in new york history. the program is still going on, and they're up to 21 releases now — 21 people who spent significant time behind bars.so let me tell you about a couple other of the men and women that i interacted with in the course of this program. one name is roger logan. mr. logan had been in jail 17 years and wrote me a letter. it was a simple letter; it basically said, "professor sullivan, i'm innocent. i've been framed. can you look at my case?" at first blush, the case seemed like it was open and shut, but my research had shown that single-witness identification cases are prone to error. it doesn't mean he was innocent, it just means we ought to look a little bit closer at those cases.so we did. and the facts were relatively simple. the eyewitness said she heard a shot, and she ran to the next building and turned around and looked, and there was mr. logan. and he was tried and convicted and in jail for 17-some-odd years. but it was a single-witness case, so we took a look at it. i sent some people to the scene, and there was an inconsistency. and to put it politely: usain bolt couldn't have run from where she said she was to the other spot. right? so we knew that wasn't true. so it still didn't mean that he didn't do it, but we knew something was maybe fishy about this witness. so we looked through the file, a piece of paper in the file had a number on it. the number indicated that this witness had a record. we went back through 20 years of non-digitized papers to figure out what this record was about, and it turned out — it turned out — the eyewitness was in jail when she said she saw what she saw. the man spent 17 years behind bars.the last one is a case about two boys, willie stuckey, david mccallum. they were arrested at 15, and their conviction was vacated 29 years later. now this was a case, once again — first blush, it looked open and shut. they had confessed. but my research showed that juvenile confessions without a parent present are prone to error. the dna cases proved this several times.so we took a close look. we looked at the confession, and it turned out, there was something in the confession that those boys could not have known. the only people who knew it were police and prosecutors. we knew what really happened; someone told them to say this. we don't exactly know who, which person did, but any rate, the confession was coerced, we determined. we then went back and did forensics and did a fulsome investigation and found that two other, much older, different heights, different hairstyle, two other people committed the crime, not these two boys.i actually went to court that day, for what's called a "vacatur hearing," where the conviction is thrown out. i went to court; i wanted to see mr. mccallum walk out of there. so i went to court, and the judge said something that judges say all the time, but this took on a really special meaning. he looked up after the arguments and said, "mr. mccallum," he said five beautiful words: "you are free to go." can you imagine? after just about 30 years: "you are free to go." and he walked out of that courtroom.unfortunately, his codefendant, mr. stuckey, didn't get the benefit of that. you see, mr. stuckey died in prison at 34 years old, and his mother sat at counsel table in his place. i'll never forget this the rest of my life. she just rocked at the table, saying, "i knew my baby didn't do this. i knew my baby didn't do this." and her baby didn't do this. two other guys did it.if there's anything that we've learned, anything that i've learned, with this conviction integrity work, it's that justice doesn't happen. people make justice happen. justice is not a thing that just descends from above and makes everything right. if it did, mr. stuckey wouldn't have died in prison. justice is something that people of goodwill make happen. justice is a decision. justice is a decision. we make justice happen.you know, the scary thing is, in each of these three cases i described, it would have only taken just an extra minute — an extra minute — for someone to look through the file and find this receipt. just one — to look through the file, find the receipt, give it to the public defender. it would have taken someone just a minute to look at the video confession and say, "that cannot be." just a minute. and perhaps mr. stuckey would be alive today.it reminds me of one of my favorite poems. it's a poem that benjamin elijah mays would always recite, and he called it "god's minute." and it goes something like this: "i have only just a minute, only 60 seconds in it, forced upon me, can't refuse it, didn't seek it, didn't choose it. but it's up to me to use it. i must suffer if i lose it, give account if i abuse it. just a tiny little minute, but eternity is in it."if i were to charge each and every one of us, i would want to say something like, "every day, every day, take just one extra minute and do some justice. you don't have to — i mean, some people spend their careers and their lives, like public defenders, doing justice every day. but in your professional lives, whatever you do, take time out to just do some justice. make a colleague feel better. if you hear something that's sexist, don't laugh, speak up. if someone is down, lift them up, one extra minute each day, and it'll be a great, great place.i want to show you something. now, above me is a picture of david mccallum. this is the day he was released from prison. after 30 years, he got to hug a niece he had never been able to touch before. and i asked him then, i said, "what's the first thing you want to do?" and he said, "i just want to walk on the sidewalk without anybody telling me where to go." wasn't bitter, just wanted to walk on the sidewalk.i spoke to mr. mccallum about two weeks ago. i went to new york. it was on the two-year anniversary of his release. and we talked, we laughed, we hugged, we cried. and he's doing quite well. and one of the things he said when we met with him is that he now has dedicated his life and his career to ensuring that nobody else is locked up unjustly.justice, my friends, is a decision.thank you very much. <title = "How artists can (finally) get paid in the digital age ">
<tags = "['art', 'business', 'creativity', 'entrepreneur', 'money', 'music']">
<occupation = "Musician, entrepreneur">
hi everyone. so, i'm going to take us back to 2007. i'd just spent about six months working on album that i'd poured my heart and my soul into, and it was getting about three plays per day on myspace at the time, and i was getting more and more depressed when i started noticing these other people who were playing guitar and singing and putting videos on this new site called youtube, and they were getting 300,000 views. so i decided i'm going to start making some youtube videos. and one day they featured a video of my band on the homepage, which was amazing — we got a bunch of new fans. we also got a bunch of people who, i guess, just didn't really like the music or something — it's ok because people started coming to our shows, and we started touring, and we came out with a record. and when i checked our bank account balance after our first monthly itunes payout, we had 22,000 bucks in it, which was amazing because at the time i was living at my dad's house, trying to make a living as a musician by uploading videos to the internet which literally zero people respected in 2009 — even the people who were uploading videos to the internet.and so for the next four years, i uploaded more and more videos to the internet, and they got better and better, and we made enough money through brand deals and commercials and itunes sales to buy a house. and we built a recording studio. but there was one big problem: making money as a creative person in 2013 was super weird. first of all, the business models were changing all the time. so our 58,000 dollars of annual itunes download income was about to be replaced by about 6,000 dollars of streaming income. steams paid less than downloads. and then as more and more creators started popping up online, there was just more competition for these five-figure brand deals that had kept the band afloat for years. and to top it all off, our videos themselves — the creative stuff that we made that our fans loved and appreciated — that were actually contributing value to the world, those videos were generating almost zero dollars of income for us. this is an actual snapshot of my youtube dashboard from a 28-day period that shows one million views and 166 dollars of ad earnings for those views.the whole machine in 2013 that took art online and outputted money was totally nonfunctional. it doesn't matter if you're a newspaper, or an institution, or an independent creator. a monthly web comic with 20,000 monthly readers — 20,000 monthly readers — gets paid a couple hundred bucks in ad revenue. this is 20,000 people. like, in what world is this not enough? i don't understand. what systems have we built where this is insufficient for a person to make a living?so, i actually have a theory about this. i think it's been a weird 100 years. about 100 years ago, humans figured out how to record sound onto a wax cylinder. that was the beginning of the phonograph. right around the same time, we figured out how to record light onto a piece of photographic paper, celluloid — the beginning of film and television. for the first time, you could store art on a thing, which was amazing. art used to be completely ephemeral, so if you missed the symphony, you just didn't get to hear the orchestra. but now, for the first time, you could store the orchestra's performance on a physical object, and like, listen to it later, which was amazing. it was so amazing in fact, that for the next 100 years, between 1900 and 2000, humans built just billions and billions of dollars of infrastructure to essentially help artists do two things. first, put their art on a thing, and second, get that thing around the world to the people who wanted the art. so, so much industry is devoted to these two problems. oh my gosh, there are trucking companies, and brick-and-mortar and marketing firms, and cd jewel case manufacturers, all devoted to these two problems.and then we all know what happened. 10 years ago, the internet matures and we get spotify and facebook and youtube and itunes and google search, and a hundred years of infrastructure and supply chains and distribution systems and monetization schemes are completely bypassed — in a decade. after 100 years of designing these things, it's no wonder that it's just totally broken for creative people right now. it's no wonder that the monetization part of the chain doesn't work given this new context.but what gets me super excited to be a creator right now, to be alive today and be a creative person right now, is realizing that we're only 10 years into figuring out this new machine — to figuring out the next 100 years of infrastructure for our creators. and you can tell we're only 10 years in. there's a lot of trial and error, some really good ideas forming, a lot of experimentation. we're figuring out what works and what doesn't. like twitch streamers. who's heard of twitch? twitch streamers are making three to five thousand bucks a month streaming gaming content. the big ones are making over 100,000 dollars a year. there's a site called younow, it's an app. it allows musicians and vloggers to get paid in digital goods from fans.so, i'm also working on the problem. four years ago i started a company called patreon with a friend of mine. we're 80 people now working on this problem. it's basically a membership platform that makes it really easy for creators to get paid — every month from their fans to earn a living. for a creator, it's like having a salary for being a creative person. and this is one of our creators. they're called "kinda funny." they have about 220,000 subscribers on youtube. and when they upload a video, it gets somewhere around 15,000 views to 100,000 views. i want you to check yourselves right now. i think when we hear numbers like that, when we hear "15,000 views," and we see content like this, we just snap categorize it as being not as legitimate as a morning show that you'd hear on the radio or a talk show that you'd see on nbc or something but when "kinda funny" launched on patreon, within a few weeks, they were making 31,000 dollars per month for this show. it took off so fast that they decided to expand their programming and add new shows, and now they launched a second patreon page — they're making an additional 21,000 dollars per month. and they're scaling what's essentially becoming a media company, financing the whole thing through membership.ok, here's another example. this is derek bodner, a sports journalist who used to write for philadelphia magazine until a few months ago when the magazine cut out all sports coverage. now he writes articles and publishes them on his own website — he's still covering sports, but for himself. and he's making 4,800 bucks a month from 1,700 patrons, financing it through membership.this is crash course — free educational content for the world. this show is actually on the pbs digital network — 29,000 dollars per month. this is a duo sailing around the world, getting paid every month for documenting their travels from 1,400 patrons. this is a podcast, "chapo trap house", making — actually, since i screenshotted this, they're making an additional 2,000 dollars per month, so they're now making 56,000 dollars per month for their podcast.and patreon's not the only one working on the problem. even google's starting to work on this. a couple years ago, they launched fan funding; more recently, they launched super chat as a way for creators to monetize live streaming. newspapers are starting to experiment with membership. new york times has a membership program; the guardian has over 200,000 paying subscribers to its membership program. there's this bubbling soup of ideas and experiments and progress right now, and it's pointing in the direction of getting creators paid. and it's working. it's not, like, perfect yet, but it's really working.so, patreon has over 50,000 creators on the platform making salaries — getting paid every month for putting art online, for being a creative person. the next hundred years of infrastructure is on the way and it's going to be different this time because of this — because of the direct connection between the person who makes the thing and the person who likes the thing.about seven or eight years ago, i went to a cocktail party. this is when the band had hit our first machine, so things were really cranking. we had just made about 400,000 dollars in one year through itunes sales and brand deals and stuff like that. and this guy comes up to me and says, "hey, jack, what do you do?" i said, "i'm a musician." and he just sobered up immediately, and he stuck out his hand, put a hand on my shoulder, and in a real earnest, very nice voice he was like, "i hope you make it someday." and ... i have so many moments like that logged in my memory. i just cringe thinking of that. it's so embarrassing to just not feel valued as a creative person. but as a species, we are leaving that cocktail party behind. we're leaving that culture, we're out of there. we're going to get so good at paying creators, within 10 years, kids graduating high school and college are going to think of being a creator as just being an option — i could be a doctor, i could be a lawyer, i could be a podcaster, i could have a web comic. it's just going to be something you can do. we're figuring it out. it's going to be a viable and sustainable and respected profession. creators are going to come out the other end of this weird 100 years, this century-long journey, with an awesome new machine. and they're going to be paid, and they're going to be valued. thanks, everybody. i think it went pretty well. i want artists who saw that to not give up — to know that we're getting there. it's not there yet, but in a couple years, there will be so many systems and tools for them to just make a living online, and if they've got a podcast that's starting to take off, but they're not able to make money on it yet, that's happening and they're going to be paid. it's happening.<title = "7 principles for building better cities">
<tags = "['architecture', 'design', 'future', 'infrastructure', 'public spaces', 'society', 'transportation', 'urban', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Urban designer">
so, let me add to the complexity of the situation we find ourselves in. at the same time that we're solving for climate change, we're going to be building cities for three billion people. that's a doubling of the urban environment. if we don't get that right, i'm not sure all the climate solutions in the world will save mankind, because so much depends on how we shape our cities: not just environmental impacts, but our social well-being, our economic vitality, our sense of community and connectedness.fundamentally, the way we shape cities is a manifestation of the kind of humanity we bring to bear. and so getting it right is, i think, the order of the day. and to a certain degree, getting it right can help us solve climate change, because in the end, it's our behavior that seems to be driving the problem. the problem isn't free-floating, and it isn't just exxonmobil and oil companies. it's us; how we live. how we live.there's a villain in this story. it's called sprawl, and i'll be upfront about that. but it's not just the kind of sprawl you think of, or many people think of, as low-density development out at the periphery of the metropolitan area. actually, i think sprawl can happen anywhere, at any density. the key attribute is that it isolates people. it segregates people into economic enclaves and land-use enclaves. it separates them from nature. it doesn't allow the cross-fertilization, the interaction, that make cities great places and that make society thrive. so the antidote to sprawl is really what we all need to be thinking about, especially when we're taking on this massive construction project.so let me take you through one exercise. we developed the model for the state of california so they could get on with reducing carbon emissions. we did a whole series of scenarios for how the state could grow, and this is just one overly simplified one. we mixed different development prototypes and said they're going to carry us through the year 2050, 10 million new crew in our state of california. and one was sprawl. it's just more of the same: shopping malls, subdivisions, office parks. the other one was dominated by, not everybody moving to the city, but just compact development, what we used to think of as streetcar suburbs, walkable neighborhoods, low-rise, but integrated, mixed-used environments. and the results are astounding. they're astounding not just for the scale of the difference of this one shift in our city-making habit but also because each one represents a special interest group, a special interest group that used to advocate for their concerns one at a time. they did not see the, what i call, "co-benefits" of urban form that allows them to join with others.so, land consumption: environmentalists are really concerned about this, so are farmers; there's a whole range of people, and, of course, neighborhood groups that want open space nearby. the sprawl version of california almost doubles the urban physical footprint.greenhouse gas: tremendous savings, because in california, our biggest carbon emission comes from cars, and cities that don't depend on cars as much obviously create huge savings.vehicle miles traveled: that's what i was just talking about. just reducing the average 10,000 miles per household per year, from somewhere in the mid-26,000 per household, has a huge impact not just on air quality and carbon but also on the household pocketbook. it's very expensive to drive that much, and as we've seen, the middle class is struggling to hold on.health care: we were talking about how do you fix it once we broke it — clean the air. why not just stop polluting? why not just use our feet and bikes more? and that's a function of the kinds of cities that we shape.household costs: 2008 was a mark in time, not of just the financial industry running amok. it was that we were trying to sell too many of the wrong kind of housing: large lot, single family, distant, too expensive for the average middle-class family to afford and, quite frankly, not a good fit to their lifestyle anymore. but in order to move inventory, you can discount the financing and get it sold. i think that's a lot of what happened. reducing cost by 10,000 dollars — remember, in california the median is 50,000 — this is a big element. that's just cars and utility costs. so the affordable housing advocates, who often sit off in their silos separate from the environmentalists, separate from the politicians, everybody fighting with everyone, now begin to see common cause, and i think the common cause is what really brings about the change.los angeles, as a result of these efforts, has now decided to transform itself into a more transit-oriented environment. as a matter of fact, since '08, they've voted in 400 billion dollars of bonds for transit and zero dollars for new highways. what a transformation: la becomes a city of walkers and transit, not a city of cars. how does it happen? you take the least desirable land, the strip, you add where there's space, transit and then you infill mixed-use development, you satisfy new housing demands and you make the existing neighborhoods all around it more complex, more interesting, more walkable.here's another kind of sprawl: china, high-density sprawl, what you think of as an oxymoron, but the same problems, everything isolated in superblocks, and of course this amazing smog that was just spoken to. twelve percent of gdp in china now is spent on the health impacts of that. the history, of course, of chinese cities is robust. it's like any other place. community was all about small, local shops and local services and walking, interacting with your neighbors. it may sound utopian, but it's not. it's actually what people really want. the new superblocks — these are blocks that would have 5,000 units in them, and they're gated as well, because nobody knows anybody else. and of course, there isn't even a sidewalk, no ground floor shops — a very sterile environment. i found this one case here in one of the superblocks where people had illicitly set up shops in their garages so that they could have that kind of local service economy. the desire of people to get it right is there. we just have to get the planners on board and the politicians.all right. some technical planning stuff. chongqing is a city of 30 million people. it's almost as big as california. this is a small growth area. they wanted us to test the alternative to sprawl in several cities across china. this is for four-and-a-half million people. what the takeaway from this image is, every one of those circles is a walking radius around a transit station — massive investment in metro and brt, and a distribution that allows everybody to work within walking distance of that.the red area, this is a blow-up. all of a sudden, our principles called for green space preserving the important ecological features. and then those other streets in there are auto-free streets. so instead of bulldozing, leveling the site and building right up to the river, this green edge was something that really wasn't normative in china until these set of practices began experimentation there. the urban fabric, small blocks, maybe 500 families per block. they know each other. the street perimeter has shops so there's local destinations. and the streets themselves become smaller, because there are more of them. very simple, straightforward urban design.now, here you have something i dearly love. think of the logic. if only a third of the people have cars, why do we give 100 percent of our streets to cars? what if we gave 70 percent of the streets to car-free, to everybody else, so that the transit could move well for them, so that they could walk, so they could bike?why not have — geographic equity in our circulation system? and quite frankly, cities would function better. no matter what they do, no matter how many ring roads they build in beijing, they just can't overcome complete gridlock. so this is an auto-free street, mixed use along the edge. it has transit running down the middle. i'm happy to make that transit autonomous vehicles, but maybe i'll have a chance to talk about that later.so there are seven principles that have now been adopted by the highest levels in the chinese government, and they're moving to implement them. and they're simple, and they are globally, i think, universal principles. one is to preserve the natural environment, the history and the critical agriculture.second is mix. mixed use is popular, but when i say mixed, i mean mixed incomes, mixed age groups as well as mixed-land use.walk. there's no great city that you don't enjoy walking in. you don't go there. the places you go on vacation are places you can walk. why not make it everywhere?bike is the most efficient means of transportation we know. china has now adopted policies that put six meters of bike lane on every street. they're serious about getting back to their biking history. complicated planner-ese here: connect. it's a street network that allows many routes instead of singular routes and provides many kinds of streets instead of just one.ride. we have to invest more in transit. there's no silver bullet. autonomous vehicles are not going to solve this for us. as a matter of fact, they're going to generate more traffic, more vmt, than the alternative.and focus. we have a hierarchy of the city based on transit rather than the old armature of freeways. it's a big paradigm shift, but those two things have to get reconnected in ways that really shape the structure of the city. so i'm very hopeful. in california, the united states, china — these changes are well accepted.i'm hopeful for two reasons. one is, most people get it. they understand intrinsically what a great city can and should be. the second is that the kind of analysis we can bring to bear now allows people to connect the dots, allows people to shape political coalitions that didn't exist in the past. that allows them to bring into being the kinds of communities we all need.thank you. chris anderson: so, ok: autonomous driving, self-driving cars. a lot of people here are very excited about them. what are your concerns or issues about them?peter calthorpe: well, i think there's almost too much hype here. first is, everybody says we're going to get rid of a lot of cars. what they don't say is you're going to get a lot more vehicle miles. you're going to get a lot more cars moving on streets. there will be more congestion.ca: because they're so appealing — you can drive while reading or sleeping.pc: well, a couple of reasons. one is, if they're privately owned, people will travel greater distances. it'll be a new lease on life to sprawl. if you can work on your way to work, you can live in more remote locations. it'll revitalize sprawl in a way that i'm deeply frightened. taxis: about 50 percent of the surveys say that people won't share them. if they don't share them, you can end up with a 90 percent increase in vehicle miles traveled. if you share them, you're still at around a 30 percent increase in vmt.ca: sharing them, meaning having multiple people riding at once in some sort of intelligent ride-sharing?pc: yeah, so the uber share without a steering wheel. the reality is, the efficiency of vehicles — you can do it with or without a steering wheel, it doesn't matter. they claim they're the only ones that are going to be efficient electric, but that's not true. but the real bottom line is that walking, biking and transit are the way cities and communities thrive. and putting people in their private bubbles, whether they have a steering wheel or not, is the wrong direction. and quite frankly, the image of an av on its way to mcdonald's to pick up a pack without its owner, just being sent off on these kind of random errands is really frightening to me.ca: well, thank you for that, and i have to say, the images you showed of those mixed-use streets were really inspiring, really beautiful.pc: thank you. ca: thank you for your work. <title = "A practical way to help the homeless find work and safety">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'cities', 'community', 'government', 'poverty', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Mayor of Albuquerque">
so, raise your hand if you've seen somebody in your city standing on a corner, holding a sign like this. i think we all have. if you're being honest, at least one time, have you wondered if they mean it? if we offered them a job, would they really take it? and what would that job mean to them in their lives? well, this is a story about what happened in my city when we decided to find out, when we decided to think differently about panhandling, and lift people up through the dignity of work.we call it, "there's a better way." we call it there's a better way because i believe there's a better way to get the money you need than panhandling on the corner. i believe there's a better way to help your brothers and sisters in need than handing a few dollars out the car window. we know there's dignity in work. we also know that people are much more likely to invest in themselves if they believe that their community is willing to invest in them first. and because we're all wired to be kind and compassionate, it always feels good to hand a couple of dollars to someone that is in need. but if you talk to panhandlers, many of them will tell you that your few dollars don't necessarily go towards feeding the body, they go towards feeding an addiction. there's a better way.my name is richard berry, and i have one of the best jobs in the world. i get to be the mayor of a great american city, albuquerque, new mexico. i was at lunch on july 17, 2015, in my great american city, and on my way back to city hall, i saw this gentleman standing on a corner. as you can see, he's holding a sign, and his sign says he wants a job. but if you look closer at the picture, you'll see he's standing underneath a blue sign, and that sign says, if you need help, if you need food or shelter or you'd like to donate, please call 311, our community service number.so why is this guy standing underneath my sign with his sign? well, we wondered if anybody would call that 311 sign, and as it turns out, they did — 11,000 times people called. i put those up in about 30 intersections. and we did connect them with food and shelter and services. but yet he's still standing under my sign with a sign that says he wants a job. it's simple: he wants a job. so i decided to do something rare in government. i decided to make the solution simpler rather than more complicated. i went back to my office, i gathered my staff around and i said, "we're going to take this man at his word, and others like him. the man says he wants a job, we're going to give him a job, and we're going to make our city an even better place in the meantime."you see, albuquerque is a beautiful place. we're a mile high, the sandia mountains on the east, the rio grande runs through the center of the city; we're the home of the albuquerque international balloon fiesta. on a day like today, you could literally ski this morning and golf this afternoon. but there's always something to do — always weeds to pull, litter to pick up. if you're going to have an initiative like this in your city, you have to ask yourself two questions. first one is: is there anything left to do in your city? and if the answer is no, would you please give me your mayor's phone number, because i need some advice. but the second question you have to ask is this: are your solutions to panhandling working? if you're like albuquerque, and you're taking the punitive approach like we used to, handing out tickets to panhandlers or those who give them money, i'm going to suggest that your solutions aren't working, and i know you're not getting to the root of your problem in your city. so if you have something to do and you need people that need something to do, there's a better way. and the good news is, it's not that complicated.this a 2006 dodge van. it was in my motor pool not doing anything. we put some new tires on it, wrapped it with a logo. this van now goes out to street corners where our panhandlers are — we go to them. we stop the van, we get out, we ask them if they would like a day's work rather than panhandling for the day. and if you wondered if they really mean it — it takes us about an hour to fill this van up in the morning, because almost everybody we ask takes a job for the day.but you need more than just a van. you need a super-fantastic human being to drive that van. and my super-fantastic human being, his name is will. this is him in the yellow vest. will works at our local nonprofit partner. he works with the homeless every day. the panhandlers trust him, he believes in them, he hustles. i like to say, "where there's a will, there's a way." so if you're going to do the better way campaign in your city, you need to find yourself a will, because he's really one of the keys to making this successful in the city of albuquerque.you also need a great nonprofit partner. ours is st. martin's hospitality center. they've been in our community for over 30 years. they provide counseling, food, shelter, and if they don't provide it, they know somebody in our city that does. but they do something much more for me as the mayor. they provide agility. you see, it takes me two weeks, maybe two months sometimes, to onboard an employee with the city of albuquerque. so you could imagine — my old dodge van, my super-fantastic human being, will, a great local nonprofit partner — they drive to the corner, there's a panhandler, they say, "would you like to work for the day?" the panhandler says, "yes," and will says, "great! i'll be back in six weeks to pick you up." it wouldn't work. it's really important that we have that agility in our program. and they do the paperwork, they do the insurance, they do all of the other forms that i can't do quickly.we pay our panhandlers nine dollars an hour. we feed them once at the jobsite. at the end of the day, our old dodge van takes them right back to st. martin's, and they get connected with counseling services.so far, with the pilot program and a couple days a week, and a fantastic human being and a dodge van, we've cleaned up 400 city blocks in the city of albuquerque. we've picked up over 117,000 pounds of trash, weeds and litter. i don't know if you've ever weighed a tumbleweed, but they don't weigh much, so you can imagine the volume of material that we've picked up.my city has 6,000 employees, and none better than my solid waste department. we send our trucks out at the end of the day, they help the panhandlers put into the truck the material they've picked up during the day, and we take it to the landfill. i'm lucky that i have city employees that are willing to work side by side with our panhandlers. they're lifting up our city while lifting up their lives. and like anything else — listen, it takes resources. but the good news is it doesn't take much. we started with an old van, a super-fantastic human being, a great local nonprofit and $50,000.but we also had to have community trust. and fortunately, we had built that up in years prior to better way. we have a program called "albuquerque heading home," a housing first model where we house the chronically homeless, and when i told my community we wanted to do that differently, i said there's a smart way to do the right thing. we have now housed 650 chronically homeless, medically vulnerable — frankly, most likely to die on the streets in our city. we commissioned our university, they studied it. we could tell the taxpayers, we can save you 31.6 percent over the cost of leaving someone to struggle for survival on the streets. we've now saved over five million dollars while housing 650 people.so we had that community trust, but we had to have a little bit more of an honest conversation also as a community, because we had to get people to understand that when they hand those five dollars out the window, they might actually be minimizing their opportunity to help the person in need, and here's why: that five dollars might go to buying some fast food today — a lot of times it goes to buying drugs and alcohol. that same five dollars, if you gave it to one of our shelters, could feed seven people today. and if you gave it to one of our local food banks or food pantries, we could actually feed 20 people with that money.people ask,"well, albuquerque is 600,000 people — million, metro — this wouldn't work in our city, we're too big, we're too small." i disagree; if you have one panhandler on one city block, you can do this. if you live in a city of eight-and-half million people, you can do this. it doesn't matter what you do. it's not the work that you do, it's the dignity of the work. you could do anything. so i think any city could do this. and people say to me, "mayor, that's just a little too simple. it can't work that way."but i tell you what, friends: when you go to a street corner and you engage with a panhandler with dignity and respect, maybe for the first time in years, maybe in their life, and you tell them that you believe in them and that this is their city as much as it's your city, and that you actually need their help to make our place better, and you understand that this isn't the answer to all their problems, but at least it's a start, an amazing thing happens. when they get out on the jobsite and they start working together, you start seeing amazing things happen. they see teamwork; they see the fact that they can make a difference. and at the end of the day, when they get back to st. martin's in that old dodge van, they're much more likely to sign up for whatever services they need — substance abuse, mental health counseling, you name it.so far with our pilot program, we've offered about 1,700 days of day work. we've connected 216 people to permanent employment opportunities. twenty people actually qualified for our housing first model, heading home, and they've been housed. and over 150 people have been connected to mental health substance abuse services through there's a better way.this is me just two weeks ago, at st. martin's, doing our point-in-time survey that we do every two years. i'm interviewing a gentleman who's homeless, like we do, getting his information, figuring out where he's from, how he got there, what we can do to help him. and you notice he's holding the same sign that the guy was holding in 2015, same sign i walked out with here today.so you have to ask yourself: is it really making a difference? absolutely it's making a difference. albuquerque is now one of the national leaders in combating some of the most stubborn and persistent social issues that we have. combined with albuquerque heading home, the better way program, albuquerque has reduced unsheltered homelessness in our city by 80 percent last year. since i took over as mayor, we've been able to reduce the chronic homeless population in our city by 40 percent. and by hud's definition, we've gotten to functional zero, which means we've literally ended veteran homelessness in the city of albuquerque, by being intentional. so i'm happy to report that other cities are hearing about this, other mayors are calling us — chicago, seattle, denver, dallas — and are now starting to implement programs where they bring the dignity of work to the equation. and i can't wait to learn from them. i can't wait to see what their experiment looks like, what their pilot project looks like, so we can start taking a collective approach nationally through the dignity of work. and i want to commend them — the mayors, their communities, their nonprofits — for the work that they're doing.so who's next? are you and your city ready to step up? are you ready to think differently about these persistent social issues? are you ready to lift people up in your community through the dignity of work, and make your city profoundly better in many ways? well, if you are, my friends, i promise you there is a better way.thank you. <title = "The secret to living longer may be your social life">
<tags = "['aging', 'brain', 'community', 'family', 'friendship', 'health', 'psychology', 'society']">
<occupation = "Developmental psychologist">
here's an intriguing fact. in the developed world, everywhere, women live an average of six to eight years longer than men do. six to eight years longer. that's, like, a huge gap. in 2015, the "lancet" published an article showing that men in rich countries are twice as likely to die as women are at any age.but there is one place in the world where men live as long as women. it's a remote, mountainous zone, a blue zone, where super longevity is common to both sexes. this is the blue zone in sardinia, an italian island in the mediterranean, between corsica and tunisia, where there are six times as many centenarians as on the italian mainland, less than 200 miles away. there are 10 times as many centenarians as there are in north america. it's the only place where men live as long as women.but why? my curiosity was piqued. i decided to research the sights and the habits of the place, and i started with the genetic profile. i discovered soon enough that genes account for just 25 percent of their longevity. the other 75 percent is lifestyle.so what does it take to live to 100 or beyond? what are they doing right? what you're looking at is an aerial view of villagrande. it's a village at the epicenter of the blue zone where i went to investigate this, and as you can see, architectural beauty is not its main virtue, density is: tightly spaced houses, interwoven alleys and streets. it means that the villagers' lives constantly intersect. and as i walked through the village, i could feel hundreds of pairs of eyes watching me from behind doorways and curtains, from behind shutters. because like all ancient villages, villagrande couldn't have survived without this structure, without its walls, without its cathedral, without its village square, because defense and social cohesion defined its design.urban priorities changed as we moved towards the industrial revolution because infectious disease became the risk of the day. but what about now? now, social isolation is the public health risk of our time. now, a third of the population says they have two or fewer people to lean on.but let's go to villagrande now as a contrast to meet some centenarians.meet giuseppe murinu. he's 102, a supercentenarian and a lifelong resident of the village of villagrande. he was a gregarious man. he loved to recount stories such as how he lived like a bird from what he could find on the forest floor during not one but two world wars, how he and his wife, who also lived past 100, raised six children in a small, homey kitchen where i interviewed him. here he is with his sons angelo and domenico, both in their 70s and looking after their father, and who were quite frankly very suspicious of me and my daughter who came along with me on this research trip, because the flip side of social cohesion is a wariness of strangers and outsiders. but giuseppe, he wasn't suspicious at all. he was a happy-go-lucky guy, very outgoing with a positive outlook. and i wondered: so is that what it takes to live to be 100 or beyond, thinking positively? actually, no. meet giovanni corrias. he's 101, the grumpiest person i have ever met. and he put a lie to the notion that you have to be positive to live a long life. and there is evidence for this. when i asked him why he lived so long, he kind of looked at me under hooded eyelids and he growled, "nobody has to know my secrets." but despite being a sourpuss, the niece who lived with him and looked after him called him "il tesoro," "my treasure." and she respected him and loved him, and she told me, when i questioned this obvious loss of her freedom, "you just don't understand, do you? looking after this man is a pleasure. it's a huge privilege for me. this is my heritage." and indeed, wherever i went to interview these centenarians, i found a kitchen party. here's giovanni with his two nieces, maria above him and beside him his great-niece sara, who came when i was there to bring fresh fruits and vegetables. and i quickly discovered by being there that in the blue zone, as people age, and indeed across their lifespans, they're always surrounded by extended family, by friends, by neighbors, the priest, the barkeeper, the grocer. people are always there or dropping by. they are never left to live solitary lives. this is unlike the rest of the developed world, where as george burns quipped, "happiness is having a large, loving, caring family in another city." now, so far we've only met men, long-living men, but i met women too, and here you see zia teresa. she, at over 100, taught me how to make the local specialty, which is called culurgiones, which are these large pasta pockets like ravioli about this size, this size, and they're filled with high-fat ricotta and mint and drenched in tomato sauce. and she showed me how to make just the right crimp so they wouldn't open, and she makes them with her daughters every sunday and distributes them by the dozens to neighbors and friends. and that's when i discovered a low-fat, gluten-free diet is not what it takes to live to 100 in the blue zone. now, these centenarians' stories along with the science that underpins them prompted me to ask myself some questions too, such as, when am i going to die and how can i put that day off? and as you will see, the answer is not what we expect. julianne holt-lunstad is a researcher at brigham young university and she addressed this very question in a series of studies of tens of thousands of middle aged people much like this audience here. and she looked at every aspect of their lifestyle: their diet, their exercise, their marital status, how often they went to the doctor, whether they smoked or drank, etc. she recorded all of this and then she and her colleagues sat tight and waited for seven years to see who would still be breathing. and of the people left standing, what reduced their chances of dying the most? that was her question.so let's now look at her data in summary, going from the least powerful predictor to the strongest. ok? so clean air, which is great, it doesn't predict how long you will live. whether you have your hypertension treated is good. still not a strong predictor. whether you're lean or overweight, you can stop feeling guilty about this, because it's only in third place. how much exercise you get is next, still only a moderate predictor. whether you've had a cardiac event and you're in rehab and exercising, getting higher now. whether you've had a flu vaccine. did anybody here know that having a flu vaccine protects you more than doing exercise? whether you were drinking and quit, or whether you're a moderate drinker, whether you don't smoke, or if you did, whether you quit, and getting towards the top predictors are two features of your social life. first, your close relationships. these are the people that you can call on for a loan if you need money suddenly, who will call the doctor if you're not feeling well or who will take you to the hospital, or who will sit with you if you're having an existential crisis, if you're in despair. those people, that little clutch of people are a strong predictor, if you have them, of how long you'll live. and then something that surprised me, something that's called social integration. this means how much you interact with people as you move through your day. how many people do you talk to? and these mean both your weak and your strong bonds, so not just the people you're really close to, who mean a lot to you, but, like, do you talk to the guy who every day makes you your coffee? do you talk to the postman? do you talk to the woman who walks by your house every day with her dog? do you play bridge or poker, have a book club? those interactions are one of the strongest predictors of how long you'll live.now, this leads me to the next question: if we now spend more time online than on any other activity, including sleeping, we're now up to 11 hours a day, one hour more than last year, by the way, does it make a difference? why distinguish between interacting in person and interacting via social media? is it the same thing as being there if you're in contact constantly with your kids through text, for example? well, the short answer to the question is no, it's not the same thing. face-to-face contact releases a whole cascade of neurotransmitters, and like a vaccine, they protect you now in the present and well into the future. so simply making eye contact with somebody, shaking hands, giving somebody a high-five is enough to release oxytocin, which increases your level of trust and it lowers your cortisol levels. so it lowers your stress. and dopamine is generated, which gives us a little high and it kills pain. it's like a naturally produced morphine.now, all of this passes under our conscious radar, which is why we conflate online activity with the real thing. but we do have evidence now, fresh evidence, that there is a difference. so let's look at some of the neuroscience. elizabeth redcay, a neuroscientist at the university of maryland, tried to map the difference between what goes on in our brains when we interact in person versus when we're watching something that's static. and what she did was she compared the brain function of two groups of people, those interacting live with her or with one of her research associates in a dynamic conversation, and she compared that to the brain activity of people who were watching her talk about the same subject but in a canned video, like on youtube. and by the way, if you want to know how she fit two people in an mri scanner at the same time, talk to me later.so what's the difference? this is your brain on real social interaction. what you're seeing is the difference in brain activity between interacting in person and taking in static content. in orange, you see the brain areas that are associated with attention, social intelligence — that means anticipating what somebody else is thinking and feeling and planning — and emotional reward. and these areas become much more engaged when we're interacting with a live partner.now, these richer brain signatures might be why recruiters from fortune 500 companies evaluating candidates thought that the candidates were smarter when they heard their voices compared to when they just read their pitches in a text, for example, or an email or a letter. now, our voices and body language convey a rich signal. it shows that we're thinking, feeling, sentient human beings who are much more than an algorithm. now, this research by nicholas epley at the university of chicago business school is quite amazing because it tells us a simple thing. if somebody hears your voice, they think you're smarter. i mean, that's quite a simple thing.now, to return to the beginning, why do women live longer than men? and one major reason is that women are more likely to prioritize and groom their face-to-face relationships over their lifespans. fresh evidence shows that these in-person friendships create a biological force field against disease and decline. and it's not just true of humans but their primate relations, our primate relations as well. anthropologist joan silk's work shows that female baboons who have a core of female friends show lower levels of stress via their cortisol levels, they live longer and they have more surviving offspring. at least three stable relationships. that was the magic number. think about it. i hope you guys have three.the power of such face-to-face contact is really why there are the lowest rates of dementia among people who are socially engaged. it's why women who have breast cancer are four times more likely to survive their disease than loners are. why men who've had a stroke who meet regularly to play poker or to have coffee or to play old-timer's hockey — i'm canadian, after all — are better protected by that social contact than they are by medication. why men who've had a stroke who meet regularly — this is something very powerful they can do. this face-to-face contact provides stunning benefits, yet now almost a quarter of the population says they have no one to talk to.we can do something about this. like sardinian villagers, it's a biological imperative to know we belong, and not just the women among us. building in-person interaction into our cities, into our workplaces, into our agendas bolsters the immune system, sends feel-good hormones surging through the bloodstream and brain and helps us live longer. i call this building your village, and building it and sustaining it is a matter of life and death. thank you. helen walters: susan, come back. i have a question for you. i'm wondering if there's a middle path. so you talk about the neurotransmitters connecting when in face-to-face, but what about digital technology? we've seen enormous improvements in digital technology like facetime, things like that. does that work too? i mean, i see my nephew. he plays minecraft and he's yelling at his friends. it seems like he's connecting pretty well. is that useful? is that helpful?susan pinker: some of the data are just emerging. the data are so fresh that the digital revolution happened and the health data trailed behind. so we're just learning, but i would say there are some improvements that we could make in the technology. for example, the camera on your laptop is at the top of the screen, so for example, when you're looking into the screen, you're not actually making eye contact. so something as simple as even just looking into the camera can increase those neurotransmitters, or maybe changing the position of the camera. so it's not identical, but i think we are getting closer with the technology.hw: great. thank you so much.sp: thank you. <title = "How I found myself through music">
<tags = "['TED-Ed', 'guitar', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'personal growth']">
<occupation = "Student, musician">
the philosopher plato once said, "music gives a soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination and life to everything." music has always been a big part of my life. to create and to perform music connects you to people countries and lifetimes away. it connects you to the people you're playing with, to your audience and to yourself. when i'm happy, when i'm sad, when i'm bored, when i'm stressed, i listen to and i create music.when i was younger, i played piano; later, i took up guitar. and as i started high school, music became a part of my identity. i was in every band, i was involved with every musical fine arts event. music surrounded me. it made me who i was, and it gave me a place to belong.now, i've always had this thing with rhythms. i remember being young, i would walk down the hallways of my school and i would tap rhythms to myself on my leg with my hands, or tapping my teeth. it was a nervous habit, and i was always nervous. i think i liked the repetition of the rhythm — it was calming.then in high school, i started music theory, and it was the best class i've ever taken. we were learning about music — things i didn't know, like theory and history. it was a class where we basically just listened to a song, talked about what it meant to us and analyzed it, and figured out what made it tick. every wednesday, we did something called "rhythmic dictation," and i was pretty good at it. our teacher would give us an amount of measures and a time signature, and then he would speak a rhythm to us and we would have to write it down with the proper rests and notes. like this: ta ta tuck-a tuck-a ta, ta tuck-a-tuck-a-tuck-a, tuck-a. and i loved it. the simplicity of the rhythm — a basic two- to four- measure line — and yet each of them almost told a story, like they had so much potential, and all you had to do was add a melody.(guitar)rhythms set a foundation for melodies and harmonies to play on top of. it gives structure and stability. now, music has these parts — rhythm, melody and harmony — just like our lives. where music has rhythm, we have routines and habits — things that help us to remember what to do and to stay on track, and to just keep going. and you may not notice it, but it's always there.(guitar)and it may seem simple, it may seem dull by itself, but it gives tempo and heartbeat. and then things in your life add on to it, giving texture — that's your friends and your family, and anything that creates a harmonic structure in your life and in your song, like harmonies, cadences and anything that makes it polyphonic. and they create beautiful chords and patterns.(guitar)and then there's you. you play on top of everything else, on top of the rhythms and the beat because you're the melody. and things may change and develop, but no matter what we do, we're still the same people. throughout a song melodies develop, but it's still the same song. no matter what you do, the rhythms are still there: the tempo and the heartbeat ... until i left, and i went to college and everything disappeared.when i first arrived at university, i felt lost. and don't get me wrong — sometimes i loved it and it was great, but other times, i felt like i had been left alone to fend for myself. it's like i had been taken out of my natural environment, and put somewhere new, where the rhythms and the harmonies and the form had gone away, and it was just me —(guitar)silence and my melody. and even that began to waver, because i didn't know what i was doing. i didn't have any chords to structure myself, or a rhythm or a beat to know the tempo.(guitar)and then i began to hear all these other sounds.(guitar)and they were off-time and off-key. and the more i was around them, the more my melody started to sound like theirs. and slowly i began to lose myself, like i was being washed away. but then the next moment —(guitar)i could hear it. and i could feel it. and it was me. and i was here. and it was different, but not worse off. just changed a little.music is my way of coping with the changes in my life. there's a beautiful connection between music and life. it can bind us to reality at the same time it allows us to escape it. music is something that lives inside of you. you create it and you're created by it. our lives are not only conducted by music, they're also composed of it.so this may seem like a bit of a stretch, but hear me out: music is a fundamental part of what we are and of everything around us. now, music is my passion, but physics also used to be an interest of mine. and the more i learned, the more i saw connections between the two — especially regarding string theory. i know this is only one of many theories, but it spoke to me. so, one aspect of string theory, at its simplest form, is this: matter is made up of atoms, which are made up of protons and neutrons and electrons, which are made up of quark. and here's where the string part comes in. this quark is supposedly made up of little coiled strings, and it's the vibrations of these strings that make everything what it is.michio kaku once explained this in a lecture called, "the universe in a nutshell," where he says, "string theory is the simple idea that the four forces of the universe — gravity, the electromagnetic force, and the two strong forces — can be viewed as music. the music of tiny little rubber bands." in this lecture, he goes on to explain physics as the laws of harmony between these strings; chemistry, as the melodies you can play on these strings; and he states that the universe is a "symphony of strings." these strings dictate the universe; they make up everything we see and everything we know. they're musical notes, but they make us what we are and they hold us together. so you see, everything is music.(guitar)when i look at the world, i see music all around us. when i look at myself, i see music. and my life has been defined by music. i found myself through music. music is everywhere, and it is in everything. and it changes and it builds and it diminishes. but it's always there, supporting us, connecting us to each other and showing us the beauty of the universe.so if you ever feel lost, stop and listen for your song.thank you. <title = "The era of blind faith in big data must end">
<tags = "['algorithm', 'data', 'inequality', 'marketing', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Mathematician, data scientist">
algorithms are everywhere. they sort and separate the winners from the losers. the winners get the job or a good credit card offer. the losers don't even get an interview or they pay more for insurance. we're being scored with secret formulas that we don't understand that often don't have systems of appeal. that begs the question: what if the algorithms are wrong?to build an algorithm you need two things: you need data, what happened in the past, and a definition of success, the thing you're looking for and often hoping for. you train an algorithm by looking, figuring out. the algorithm figures out what is associated with success. what situation leads to success?actually, everyone uses algorithms. they just don't formalize them in written code. let me give you an example. i use an algorithm every day to make a meal for my family. the data i use is the ingredients in my kitchen, the time i have, the ambition i have, and i curate that data. i don't count those little packages of ramen noodles as food. my definition of success is: a meal is successful if my kids eat vegetables. it's very different from if my youngest son were in charge. he'd say success is if he gets to eat lots of nutella. but i get to choose success. i am in charge. my opinion matters. that's the first rule of algorithms.algorithms are opinions embedded in code. it's really different from what you think most people think of algorithms. they think algorithms are objective and true and scientific. that's a marketing trick. it's also a marketing trick to intimidate you with algorithms, to make you trust and fear algorithms because you trust and fear mathematics. a lot can go wrong when we put blind faith in big data.this is kiri soares. she's a high school principal in brooklyn. in 2011, she told me her teachers were being scored with a complex, secret algorithm called the "value-added model." i told her, "well, figure out what the formula is, show it to me. i'm going to explain it to you." she said, "well, i tried to get the formula, but my department of education contact told me it was math and i wouldn't understand it."it gets worse. the new york post filed a freedom of information act request, got all the teachers' names and all their scores and they published them as an act of teacher-shaming. when i tried to get the formulas, the source code, through the same means, i was told i couldn't. i was denied. i later found out that nobody in new york city had access to that formula. no one understood it. then someone really smart got involved, gary rubenstein. he found 665 teachers from that new york post data that actually had two scores. that could happen if they were teaching seventh grade math and eighth grade math. he decided to plot them. each dot represents a teacher. what is that? that should never have been used for individual assessment. it's almost a random number generator. but it was. this is sarah wysocki. she got fired, along with 205 other teachers, from the washington, dc school district, even though she had great recommendations from her principal and the parents of her kids.i know what a lot of you guys are thinking, especially the data scientists, the ai experts here. you're thinking, "well, i would never make an algorithm that inconsistent." but algorithms can go wrong, even have deeply destructive effects with good intentions. and whereas an airplane that's designed badly crashes to the earth and everyone sees it, an algorithm designed badly can go on for a long time, silently wreaking havoc.this is roger ailes. he founded fox news in 1996. more than 20 women complained about sexual harassment. they said they weren't allowed to succeed at fox news. he was ousted last year, but we've seen recently that the problems have persisted. that begs the question: what should fox news do to turn over another leaf?well, what if they replaced their hiring process with a machine-learning algorithm? that sounds good, right? think about it. the data, what would the data be? a reasonable choice would be the last 21 years of applications to fox news. reasonable. what about the definition of success? reasonable choice would be, well, who is successful at fox news? i guess someone who, say, stayed there for four years and was promoted at least once. sounds reasonable. and then the algorithm would be trained. it would be trained to look for people to learn what led to success, what kind of applications historically led to success by that definition. now think about what would happen if we applied that to a current pool of applicants. it would filter out women because they do not look like people who were successful in the past.algorithms don't make things fair if you just blithely, blindly apply algorithms. they don't make things fair. they repeat our past practices, our patterns. they automate the status quo. that would be great if we had a perfect world, but we don't. and i'll add that most companies don't have embarrassing lawsuits, but the data scientists in those companies are told to follow the data, to focus on accuracy. think about what that means. because we all have bias, it means they could be codifying sexism or any other kind of bigotry.thought experiment, because i like them: an entirely segregated society — racially segregated, all towns, all neighborhoods and where we send the police only to the minority neighborhoods to look for crime. the arrest data would be very biased. what if, on top of that, we found the data scientists and paid the data scientists to predict where the next crime would occur? minority neighborhood. or to predict who the next criminal would be? a minority. the data scientists would brag about how great and how accurate their model would be, and they'd be right.now, reality isn't that drastic, but we do have severe segregations in many cities and towns, and we have plenty of evidence of biased policing and justice system data. and we actually do predict hotspots, places where crimes will occur. and we do predict, in fact, the individual criminality, the criminality of individuals. the news organization propublica recently looked into one of those "recidivism risk" algorithms, as they're called, being used in florida during sentencing by judges. bernard, on the left, the black man, was scored a 10 out of 10. dylan, on the right, 3 out of 10. 10 out of 10, high risk. 3 out of 10, low risk. they were both brought in for drug possession. they both had records, but dylan had a felony but bernard didn't. this matters, because the higher score you are, the more likely you're being given a longer sentence.what's going on? data laundering. it's a process by which technologists hide ugly truths inside black box algorithms and call them objective; call them meritocratic. when they're secret, important and destructive, i've coined a term for these algorithms: "weapons of math destruction." they're everywhere, and it's not a mistake. these are private companies building private algorithms for private ends. even the ones i talked about for teachers and the public police, those were built by private companies and sold to the government institutions. they call it their "secret sauce" — that's why they can't tell us about it. it's also private power. they are profiting for wielding the authority of the inscrutable. now you might think, since all this stuff is private and there's competition, maybe the free market will solve this problem. it won't. there's a lot of money to be made in unfairness.also, we're not economic rational agents. we all are biased. we're all racist and bigoted in ways that we wish we weren't, in ways that we don't even know. we know this, though, in aggregate, because sociologists have consistently demonstrated this with these experiments they build, where they send a bunch of applications to jobs out, equally qualified but some have white-sounding names and some have black-sounding names, and it's always disappointing, the results — always.so we are the ones that are biased, and we are injecting those biases into the algorithms by choosing what data to collect, like i chose not to think about ramen noodles — i decided it was irrelevant. but by trusting the data that's actually picking up on past practices and by choosing the definition of success, how can we expect the algorithms to emerge unscathed? we can't. we have to check them. we have to check them for fairness.the good news is, we can check them for fairness. algorithms can be interrogated, and they will tell us the truth every time. and we can fix them. we can make them better. i call this an algorithmic audit, and i'll walk you through it.first, data integrity check. for the recidivism risk algorithm i talked about, a data integrity check would mean we'd have to come to terms with the fact that in the us, whites and blacks smoke pot at the same rate but blacks are far more likely to be arrested — four or five times more likely, depending on the area. what is that bias looking like in other crime categories, and how do we account for it?second, we should think about the definition of success, audit that. remember — with the hiring algorithm? we talked about it. someone who stays for four years and is promoted once? well, that is a successful employee, but it's also an employee that is supported by their culture. that said, also it can be quite biased. we need to separate those two things. we should look to the blind orchestra audition as an example. that's where the people auditioning are behind a sheet. what i want to think about there is the people who are listening have decided what's important and they've decided what's not important, and they're not getting distracted by that. when the blind orchestra auditions started, the number of women in orchestras went up by a factor of five.next, we have to consider accuracy. this is where the value-added model for teachers would fail immediately. no algorithm is perfect, of course, so we have to consider the errors of every algorithm. how often are there errors, and for whom does this model fail? what is the cost of that failure?and finally, we have to consider the long-term effects of algorithms, the feedback loops that are engendering. that sounds abstract, but imagine if facebook engineers had considered that before they decided to show us only things that our friends had posted.i have two more messages, one for the data scientists out there. data scientists: we should not be the arbiters of truth. we should be translators of ethical discussions that happen in larger society. and the rest of you, the non-data scientists: this is not a math test. this is a political fight. we need to demand accountability for our algorithmic overlords. the era of blind faith in big data must end.thank you very much. <title = "What moral decisions should driverless cars make?">
<tags = "['AI', 'driverless cars', 'innovation', 'law', 'morality', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Computational social scientist">
today i'm going to talk about technology and society. the department of transport estimated that last year 35,000 people died from traffic crashes in the us alone. worldwide, 1.2 million people die every year in traffic accidents. if there was a way we could eliminate 90 percent of those accidents, would you support it? of course you would. this is what driverless car technology promises to achieve by eliminating the main source of accidents — human error.now picture yourself in a driverless car in the year 2030, sitting back and watching this vintage tedxcambridge video. all of a sudden, the car experiences mechanical failure and is unable to stop. if the car continues, it will crash into a bunch of pedestrians crossing the street, but the car may swerve, hitting one bystander, killing them to save the pedestrians. what should the car do, and who should decide? what if instead the car could swerve into a wall, crashing and killing you, the passenger, in order to save those pedestrians? this scenario is inspired by the trolley problem, which was invented by philosophers a few decades ago to think about ethics.now, the way we think about this problem matters. we may for example not think about it at all. we may say this scenario is unrealistic, incredibly unlikely, or just silly. but i think this criticism misses the point because it takes the scenario too literally. of course no accident is going to look like this; no accident has two or three options where everybody dies somehow. instead, the car is going to calculate something like the probability of hitting a certain group of people, if you swerve one direction versus another direction, you might slightly increase the risk to passengers or other drivers versus pedestrians. it's going to be a more complex calculation, but it's still going to involve trade-offs, and trade-offs often require ethics.we might say then, "well, let's not worry about this. let's wait until technology is fully ready and 100 percent safe." suppose that we can indeed eliminate 90 percent of those accidents, or even 99 percent in the next 10 years. what if eliminating the last one percent of accidents requires 50 more years of research? should we not adopt the technology? that's 60 million people dead in car accidents if we maintain the current rate. so the point is, waiting for full safety is also a choice, and it also involves trade-offs.people online on social media have been coming up with all sorts of ways to not think about this problem. one person suggested the car should just swerve somehow in between the passengers — and the bystander. of course if that's what the car can do, that's what the car should do. we're interested in scenarios in which this is not possible. and my personal favorite was a suggestion by a blogger to have an eject button in the car that you press — just before the car self-destructs. so if we acknowledge that cars will have to make trade-offs on the road, how do we think about those trade-offs, and how do we decide? well, maybe we should run a survey to find out what society wants, because ultimately, regulations and the law are a reflection of societal values.so this is what we did. with my collaborators, jean-françois bonnefon and azim shariff, we ran a survey in which we presented people with these types of scenarios. we gave them two options inspired by two philosophers: jeremy bentham and immanuel kant. bentham says the car should follow utilitarian ethics: it should take the action that will minimize total harm — even if that action will kill a bystander and even if that action will kill the passenger. immanuel kant says the car should follow duty-bound principles, like "thou shalt not kill." so you should not take an action that explicitly harms a human being, and you should let the car take its course even if that's going to harm more people.what do you think? bentham or kant? here's what we found. most people sided with bentham. so it seems that people want cars to be utilitarian, minimize total harm, and that's what we should all do. problem solved. but there is a little catch. when we asked people whether they would purchase such cars, they said, "absolutely not." they would like to buy cars that protect them at all costs, but they want everybody else to buy cars that minimize harm. we've seen this problem before. it's called a social dilemma. and to understand the social dilemma, we have to go a little bit back in history. in the 1800s, english economist william forster lloyd published a pamphlet which describes the following scenario. you have a group of farmers — english farmers — who are sharing a common land for their sheep to graze. now, if each farmer brings a certain number of sheep — let's say three sheep — the land will be rejuvenated, the farmers are happy, the sheep are happy, everything is good. now, if one farmer brings one extra sheep, that farmer will do slightly better, and no one else will be harmed. but if every farmer made that individually rational decision, the land will be overrun, and it will be depleted to the detriment of all the farmers, and of course, to the detriment of the sheep.we see this problem in many places: in the difficulty of managing overfishing, or in reducing carbon emissions to mitigate climate change. when it comes to the regulation of driverless cars, the common land now is basically public safety — that's the common good — and the farmers are the passengers or the car owners who are choosing to ride in those cars. and by making the individually rational choice of prioritizing their own safety, they may collectively be diminishing the common good, which is minimizing total harm. it's called the tragedy of the commons, traditionally, but i think in the case of driverless cars, the problem may be a little bit more insidious because there is not necessarily an individual human being making those decisions. so car manufacturers may simply program cars that will maximize safety for their clients, and those cars may learn automatically on their own that doing so requires slightly increasing risk for pedestrians. so to use the sheep metaphor, it's like we now have electric sheep that have a mind of their own. and they may go and graze even if the farmer doesn't know it.so this is what we may call the tragedy of the algorithmic commons, and if offers new types of challenges. typically, traditionally, we solve these types of social dilemmas using regulation, so either governments or communities get together, and they decide collectively what kind of outcome they want and what sort of constraints on individual behavior they need to implement. and then using monitoring and enforcement, they can make sure that the public good is preserved. so why don't we just, as regulators, require that all cars minimize harm? after all, this is what people say they want. and more importantly, i can be sure that as an individual, if i buy a car that may sacrifice me in a very rare case, i'm not the only sucker doing that while everybody else enjoys unconditional protection.in our survey, we did ask people whether they would support regulation and here's what we found. first of all, people said no to regulation; and second, they said, "well if you regulate cars to do this and to minimize total harm, i will not buy those cars." so ironically, by regulating cars to minimize harm, we may actually end up with more harm because people may not opt into the safer technology even if it's much safer than human drivers.i don't have the final answer to this riddle, but i think as a starting point, we need society to come together to decide what trade-offs we are comfortable with and to come up with ways in which we can enforce those trade-offs.as a starting point, my brilliant students, edmond awad and sohan dsouza, built the moral machine website, which generates random scenarios at you — basically a bunch of random dilemmas in a sequence where you have to choose what the car should do in a given scenario. and we vary the ages and even the species of the different victims. so far we've collected over five million decisions by over one million people worldwide from the website. and this is helping us form an early picture of what trade-offs people are comfortable with and what matters to them — even across cultures. but more importantly, doing this exercise is helping people recognize the difficulty of making those choices and that the regulators are tasked with impossible choices. and maybe this will help us as a society understand the kinds of trade-offs that will be implemented ultimately in regulation.and indeed, i was very happy to hear that the first set of regulations that came from the department of transport — announced last week — included a 15-point checklist for all carmakers to provide, and number 14 was ethical consideration — how are you going to deal with that. we also have people reflect on their own decisions by giving them summaries of what they chose. i'll give you one example — i'm just going to warn you that this is not your typical example, your typical user. this is the most sacrificed and the most saved character for this person. some of you may agree with him, or her, we don't know. but this person also seems to slightly prefer passengers over pedestrians in their choices and is very happy to punish jaywalking. so let's wrap up. we started with the question — let's call it the ethical dilemma — of what the car should do in a specific scenario: swerve or stay? but then we realized that the problem was a different one. it was the problem of how to get society to agree on and enforce the trade-offs they're comfortable with. it's a social dilemma.in the 1940s, isaac asimov wrote his famous laws of robotics — the three laws of robotics. a robot may not harm a human being, a robot may not disobey a human being, and a robot may not allow itself to come to harm — in this order of importance. but after 40 years or so and after so many stories pushing these laws to the limit, asimov introduced the zeroth law which takes precedence above all, and it's that a robot may not harm humanity as a whole. i don't know what this means in the context of driverless cars or any specific situation, and i don't know how we can implement it, but i think that by recognizing that the regulation of driverless cars is not only a technological problem but also a societal cooperation problem, i hope that we can at least begin to ask the right questions.thank you. <title = "A lyrical bridge between past, present and future">
<tags = "['art', 'humanity', 'performance', 'personal growth', 'poetry', 'self', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Poet, author">
the youthful perspective on the future, the present perspective on the future and the future, mature perspective on the future — i'd like to try and bring all those three tenses together in one identity tonight. and you could say that the poet, in many ways, looks at what i call "the conversational nature of reality." and you ask yourself: what is the conversational nature of reality? the conversational nature of reality is the fact that whatever you desire of the world — whatever you desire of your partner in a marriage or a love relationship, whatever you desire of your children, whatever you desire of the people who work for you or with you, or your world — will not happen exactly as you would like it to happen.but equally, whatever the world desires of us — whatever our partner, our child, our colleague, our industry, our future demands of us, will also not happen. and what actually happens is this frontier between what you think is you and what you think is not you. and this frontier of actual meeting between what we call a self and what we call the world is the only place, actually, where things are real.but it's quite astonishing, how little time we spend at this conversational frontier, and not abstracted away from it in one strategy or another. i was coming through immigration, which is quite a dramatic border at the moment, into the us last year, and, you know, you get off an international flight across the atlantic, and you're not in the best place; you're not at your most spiritually mature. you're quite impatient with the rest of humanity, in fact. so when you get up to immigration with your shirt collar out and a day's growth of beard, and you have very little patience, and the immigration officer looked at my passport and said, "what do you do, mr. whyte?" i said, "i work with the conversational nature of reality." and he leaned forward over his podium and he said, "i needed you last night." and i said, "i'm sorry, my powers as a poet and philosopher only go so far. i'm not sure i can —" but before we knew it, we were into a conversation about his marriage. here he was in his uniform, and the interesting thing was, he was looking up and down the row of officers to make sure his supervisor didn't see that we was having a real conversation. but all of us live at this conversational frontier with the future.i'd like to put you in the shoes of my irish niece, marlene mccormack, standing on a cliff edge on the western coast of spain, overlooking the broad atlantic. twenty-three years old, she's just walked 500 miles from saint jean pied de port on the french side of the pyrenees, all the way across northern spain, on this very famous, old and contemporary pilgrimage called the camino de santiago de compostela — the path to santiago of compostela. and when you get to santiago, actually, it can be something of an anticlimax, because there are 100,000 people living there who are not necessarily applauding you as you're coming into town. and 10,000 of them are trying to sell you a memento of your journey. but you do have the possibility of going on for three more days to this place where marlene stood, called, in spanish, finisterre, in english, finisterre, from the latin, meaning "the ends of the earth," the place where ground turns to ocean; the place where your present turns into the future. and marlene had walked this way — she just graduated as a 23-year-old from the university of sligo with a degree in irish drama. and she said to me, "i don't think the major corporations of the world will be knocking on my door." i said, "listen, i've worked in corporations all over the world for decades; a degree in drama is what would most prepare you for the adult — corporate world." but she said, "i'm not interested in that, anyway. i don't want to teach drama, i want to become a dramatist. i want to write plays. so i walked the camino in order to give myself some courage, in order to walk into my future." and i said, "what was the most powerful moment you had on the whole camino, the very most powerful moment?" she said, "i had many powerful moments, but you know, the most powerful moment was post-camino, was the three days you go on from santiago and come to this cliff edge. and you go through three rituals. the first ritual is to eat a tapas plate of scallops" — or if you're vegetarian, to contemplate the scallop shell. because the scallop shell has been the icon and badge of your walk, and every arrow that you have seen along that way has been pointing underneath a scallop shell. so really, this first ritual is saying: how did you get to this place? how did you follow the path to get here? how do you hold the conversation of life when you feel unbesieged, when you're unbullied, when you're left to yourself? how do you hold the conversation of life that brings you to this place? and the second ritual is that you burn something that you've brought. i said, "what did you burn, marlene?" she said, "i burned a letter and two postcards." i said, "astonishing. twenty-three years old and you have paper. i can't believe it." i'm sure there's a camino app where you can just delete a traumatic text, you know? it will engage the flashlight, imbue it with color and disappear in a firework of flames. but you either bring a letter or you write one there, and you burn it. and of course we know intuitively what is on those letters and postcards. it's a form of affection and love that is now no longer extant, yeah?and then the third ritual: between all these fires are large piles of clothes. and you leave an item of clothing that has helped you to get to this place. and i said to marlene, "what did you leave at the cliff edge?" she said, "i left my boots — the very things that i walked in, actually. they were beautiful boots, i loved those boots, but they were finished after seven weeks of walking. so i walked away in my trainers, but i left my boots there."she said, "it was really incredible. the most powerful moment was, the sun was going down, but the full moon was coming up behind me. and the full moon was illuminated by the dying sun in such a powerful way that even after the sun had dropped below the horizon, the moon could still see that sun. and i had a moon shadow, and i was looking at my moon shadow walking across the atlantic, across this ocean. and i thought, 'oh! that's my new self going into the future.' but suddenly i realized the sun was falling further. the moon was losing its reflection, and my shadow was disappearing. the most powerful moment i had on the whole camino was when i realized i myself had to walk across that unknown sea into my future."well, i was so taken by this story, i wrote this piece for her. we were driving at the time; we got home, i sat on the couch, i wrote until two in the morning — everyone had gone to bed — and i gave it to marlene at breakfast time. it's called, "finisterre," for marlene mccormack."the road in the endthe road in the end taking the path the sun had takenthe road in the end taking the path the run had taken into the western seathe road in the end taking the path the sun had taken into the western seaand the moonthe moon rising behind you as you stood where ground turned to ocean:no way to your future nowno way to your future now except the way your shadow could take, walking before you across water, going where shadows go,no way to make sense of a world that wouldn't let you pass except to call an end to the way you had come, to take out each letter you had brought and light their illumined corners; and to read them as they drifted on the late western light;to empty your bagsto empty your bags; to sort this and to leave thatto sort this and to leave that; to promise what you needed to promise all alongto promise what you needed to promise all along, and to abandon the shoes that brought you here right at the water's edge,not because you had given upnot because you had given up but because now, you would find a different way to tread, and because, through it all, part of you would still walk on, no matter how, over the waves.""finisterre." for marlene mccormack — who has already had her third play performed in off-off-off-off-broadway — in dublin. but she's on her way.this is the last piece. this is about the supposed arrival at the sum of all of our endeavors. in santiago itself — it could be santiago, it could be mecca, it could be varanasi, it could be kyoto, it could be that threshold you've set for yourself, the disturbing approach to the consummation of all your goals.and one of the difficulties about walking into your life, about coming into this body, into this world fully, is you start to realize that you have manufactured three abiding illusions that the rest of humanity has shared with you since the beginning of time.and the first illusion is that you can somehow construct a life in which you are not vulnerable. you can somehow be immune to all of the difficulties and ill health and losses that humanity has been subject to since the beginning of time. if we look out at the natural world, there's no part of that world that doesn't go through cycles of, first, incipience, or hiddenness, but then growth, fullness, but then a beautiful, to begin with, disappearance, and then a very austere, full disappearance. we look at that, we say, "that's beautiful, but can i just have the first half of the equation, please? and when the disappearance is happening, i'll close my eyes and wait for the new cycle to come around." which means most human beings are at war with reality 50 percent of the time. the mature identity is able to live in the full cycle.the second illusion is, i can construct a life in which i will not have my heart broken. romance is the first place we start to do it. when you're at the beginning of a new romance or a new marriage, you say, "i have found the person who will not break my heart." i'm sorry; you have chosen them out unconsciously for that exact core competency. they will break your heart. why? because you care about them. you look at parenting, yeah? parenting: "i will be the perfect mother and father." your children will break your heart. and they don't even have to do anything spectacular or dramatic. but usually, they do do something spectacular or dramatic — to break your heart. and then they live with you as spies and saboteurs for years, watching your every psychological move, and spotting your every weakness. and one day, when they're about 14 years old, with your back turned to them, in the kitchen, while you're making something for them — the psychological stiletto goes in. and you say, "how did you know exactly where to place it?" and they say, "i've been watching you for — a good few years."and then we hope that our armored, professional personalities will prevent us from having our heart broken in work. but if you're sincere about your work, it should break your heart. you should get to thresholds where you do not know how to proceed. you do not know how to get from here to there. what does that do? it puts you into a proper relationship with reality. why? because you have to ask for help.heartbreak. we don't have a choice about heartbreak, we only have a choice of having our hearts broken over people and things and projects that we deeply care about.and the last illusion is, i can somehow plan enough and arrange things that i will be able to see the path to the end right from where i'm standing, right to the horizon. but when you think about it, the only environment in which that would be true would be a flat desert, empty of any other life. but even in a flat desert, the curvature of the earth would take the path away from you. so, no; you see the path, and then you don't and then you see it again.so this is "santiago," the supposed arrival, which is a kind of return to the beginning all at the same time. we have this experience of the journey, which is in all of our great spiritual traditions, of pilgrimage. but just by actually standing in the ground of your life fully, not trying to abstract yourself into a strategic future that's actually just an escape from present heartbreak; the ability to stand in the ground of your life and to look at the horizon that is pulling you — in that moment, you are the whole journey. you are the whole conversation."santiago.""the road seen, then not seenthe road seen, then not seenthe hillside hiding then revealing the way you should takethe road seen, then not seenthe hillside hiding then revealing the way you should take, the road dropping away from you as if leaving you to walk on thin air, then catching you, catching you, holding you up, when you thought you would fall,catching you, holding you up, when you thought you would fall,and the way forwardthe way forward always in the end the way that you came,the way forward always in the end the way that you came, the way that you followed, the way that carried you into your future, that brought you to this place,that brought you to this place, no matter that it sometimes had to take your promise from you, no matter that it always had to break your heart along the way:the sense the sense of having walked from deep inside yourself out into the revelation, to have risked yourself for something that seemed to stand both inside you and far beyond you, and that called you back in the end to the only road you could follow, walking as you did, in your rags of lovewalking as you did, in your rags of love and speaking in the voice that by night became a prayer for safe arrival, so that one dayone day you realized that what you wanted had actually already happenedone day you realized that what you wanted had actually already happened and long ago and in the dwelling place in which you lived before you began, and thatand that every step along the way, every step along the way, you had carried the heart and the mind and the promise that first set you off and then drew you on, and thatand that you were more marvelous in your simple wish to find a wayyou were more marvelous in your simple wish to find a way than the gilded roofs of any destination you could reachyou were more marvelous in that simple wish to find a way than the gilded roofs of any destination you could reach: as if, all along, you had thought the end point might be a city with golden domes, and cheering crowds, and turning the corner at what you thought was the end of the road, you found just a simple reflection, and a clear revelation beneath the face looking back and beneath it another invitation, all in one glimpseall in one glimpse: like a personlike a person or a place you had sought foreverlike a person or a place you had sought forever, like a bold field of freedom that beckoned you beyond; like another lifelike another life, and the road the road still stretching on." thank you. thank you. thank you very much. thank you.you're very kind. thank you. <title = "What would happen if we upload our brains to computers?">
<tags = "['AI', 'computers', 'economics', 'future', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'mind', 'robots', 'science', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Futurist, social scientist">
someday, we may have robots as smart as people, artificial intelligence, ai. how could that happen? one route is that we'll just keep accumulating better software, like we've been doing for 70 years. at past rates of progress, that may take centuries. some say it'll happen a lot faster as we discover grand new powerful theories of intelligence. i'm skeptical.but a third scenario is what i'm going to talk about today. the idea is to port the software from the human brain. to do this, we're going to need three technologies to be good enough, and none of them are there yet. first, we're going to need lots of cheap, fast, parallel computers. second, we're going to need to scan individual human brains in fine spatial and chemical detail, to see exactly what cells are where, connected to what, of what type. and third, we're going to need computer models of how each kind of brain cell works — taking input signals, changing interval state and sending output signals. if we have good enough models of all the kinds of brain cells and a good enough model of the brain, we can put it together to make a good enough model of an entire brain, and that model would have the same input-output behavior as the original. so if you talk to it, it might talk back. if you ask it to do things, it might do them. and if we could do that, everything would change.people have been talking about this idea for decades, under the name of "uploads." i'm going to call them "ems." when they talk about it, they say, "is this even possible? if you made one, would it be conscious? or is it just an empty machine? if you made one of me, is that me or someone else?" these are all fascinating questions that i'm going to ignore ... because i see a neglected question: what would actually happen? i became obsessed with this question. i spent four years trying to analyze it, using standard academic tools, to guess what would happen, and i'm here to tell you what i found. but be warned — i'm not offering inspiration, i'm offering analysis. i see my job as telling you what's most likely to happen if we did the least to avoid it. if you aren't at least a bit disturbed by something i tell you here, you're just not paying attention. ok, the first thing i can tell you is that ems spend most of their life in virtual reality. this is what you might look like if you were using virtual reality. and this is what you might see: sunlight glinting off of water, you might hear gulls flying above, you might even feel the wind on your cheeks or smell seawater, with advanced hardware. now, if you were to spend a lot of time here, you might want a dashboard where you could do things like make a phone call, move to a new virtual world, check your bank account.now, while this is what you would look like in virtual reality, this is what an em would look like in virtual reality. it's computer hardware sitting in a server rack somewhere. but still, it could see and experience the same thing. but some things are different for ems. first, while you'll probably always notice that virtual reality isn't entirely real, to an em, it can feel as real to them as this room feels to you now or as anything ever feels. and ems also have some more action possibilities.for example, your mind just always runs at the same speed, but an em can add more or less computer hardware to run faster or slower, and therefore, if the world around them seems to be going too fast, they can just speed up their mind, and the world around them would seem to slow down.in addition, an em can make a copy of itself at that moment. this copy would remember everything the same, and if it starts out with the same speed, looking at the same speed, it might even need to be told, "you are the copy." and em could make archive copies, and with enough archives, an em can be immortal — in principle, though not usually in practice. and an em can move its brain, the computer that represents its brain, from one physical location to another. ems can actually move around the world at the speed of light, and by moving to a new location, they can interact more quickly with ems near that new location.so far, i've been talking about what ems can do. what do ems choose to do? to understand that, we'll need to understand three key facts. first, ems by definition do what the human they emulate would do in the same situation. so their lives and behavior are very human. they're mainly different because they're living in a different world. second, ems need real resources to survive. you need food and shelter or you'll die. also, ems need computer hardware, energy, cooling, or they can't exist. for every subjective minute that an em experiences, someone, usually that em, had to work to pay for it. third, ems are poor. the em population can grow quicker than the em economy, so that means wages fall down to em subsistence levels. that means ems have to be working most of the time. so that means this is what ems usually see: beautiful and luxurious, but desks — they're working most of the time. now, a subsistence wage scenario, you might think, is exotic and strange, but it's actually the usual case in human history, and it's how pretty much all wild animals have ever lived, so we know what humans do in this situation. humans basically do what it takes to survive, and this is what lets me say so much about the em world. when creatures are rich, like you, you have to know a lot about what they want to figure out what they do. when creatures are poor, you know that they mostly do what it takes to survive.so we've been talking about the em world from the point of view of the ems — now, let's step back and look at their whole world. first, the em world grows much faster than ours, roughly a hundred times faster. so the amount of change we would experience in a century or two, they would experience in a year or two. and i'm not really willing to project this age much beyond that, because plausibly by then something else will happen, i don't know what. second, the typical emulation runs even faster, roughly a thousand times human speed. so for them, they experience thousands of years in this year or two, and for them, the world around them is actually changing more slowly than your world seems to change for you. third, ems are crammed together in a small number of very dense cities. this is not only how they see themselves in virtual reality, it's also how they actually are physically crammed together. so at em speeds, physical travel feels really painfully slow, so most em cities are self-sufficient, most war is cyber war, and most of the rest of the earth away from the em cities is left to the humans, because the ems really aren't that interested in it.speaking of humans, you were wanting to hear about that. humans must retire, at once, for good. they just can't compete. now, humans start out owning all of the capital in this world. the economy grows very fast, their wealth grows very fast. humans get rich, collectively. as you may know, most humans today don't actually own that much besides their ability to work, so between now and then, they need to acquire sufficient assets, insurance or sharing arrangements, or they may starve. i highly recommend avoiding this outcome. now, you might wonder, why would ems let humans exist? why not kill them, take their stuff? but notice we have many unproductive retirees around us today, and we don't kill them and take their stuff. in part, that's because it would disrupt the institutions we share with them. other groups would wonder who's next, so plausibly, ems may well let humans retire in peace during the age of em. you should worry more that the age of em only lasts a year or two and you don't know what happens next.ems are very much like humans, but they are not like the typical human. the typical em is a copy of the few hundred most productive humans. so in fact, they are as elite, compared to the typical human, as the typical billionaire, nobel prize winner, olympic gold medalist, head of state. ems look on humans perhaps with nostalgia and gratitude, but not so much respect, which is, if you think about it, how you think about your ancestors. we know many things about how humans differ in terms of productivity. we can just use those to predict features of ems — for example, they tend to be smart, conscientious, hard-working, married, religious, middle-aged. these are features of ems.em world also contains enormous variety. not only does it continue on with most of the kinds of variety that humans do, including variety of industry and profession, they also have many new kinds of variety, and one of the most important is mind speed. ems can plausibly go from human speed up to a million times faster than human speed, and down to a billion times slower than human speed. faster ems tend to have markers of high status. they embody more wealth. they win arguments. they sit at premium locations. slower ems are mostly retirees, and they are like the ghosts of our literature. if you recall, ghosts are all around us — you can interact with them if you pay the price. but they don't know much, they can't influence much, and they're obsessed with the past, so what's the point? ems also have more variety in the structure of their lives. this is your life: you start and you end, really simple. this is the life of an em, who every day splits off some short-term copies to do short-term tasks and then end. we'll talk more about those short term versions in a moment, but they are much more efficient because they don't have to rest for the next day. this em is more opportunistic. they make more copies of themselves when there's more demand for that. they don't know which way the future's going.this is an em designer, who conceives of a large system and then breaks recursively into copies who elaborate that, so ems can implement larger, more coherent designs. this an emulation plumber who remembers that every day, for the last 20 years, they only ever worked two hours a day, a life of leisure. but what really happened is, every day they had a thousand copies, each of whom did a two-hour plumbing job, and only one of them went on to the next day. objectively, they're working well over 99 percent of the time. subjectively, they remember a life of leisure. this, again, is you. you start and you end. this could be you if at the start of party, you took a drug that meant you would not remember that party ever after that day. some people do this, i'm told. toward the end of the party, will you say to yourself, "i'm about to die, this is terrible. that person tomorrow isn't me, because they won't remember what i do." or you could say, "i will go on tomorrow. i just won't remember what i did." this is an em who splits off a short-term copy to do a short-term task and then end. they have the same two attitude possibilities. they can say, "i'm a new short-term creature with a short life. i hate this." or "i'm a part of a larger creature who won't remember this part." i predict they'll have that second attitude, not because it's philosophically correct, but because it helps them get along.today, if the president says we must invade iraq, and you say, "why?" and they say, "state secret," you're not sure if you can trust them, but for ems, a copy of the president and a copy of you can go inside a safe, explain all their secret reasons, and then one bit comes out from your copy to yourself, telling you if you were convinced. so now you can know there is a good reason.i know you guys are all eager to evaluate this world. you're eager to decide if you love it or hate it. but think: your ancestors from thousands of years ago would have loved or hated your world based on the first few things they heard about it, because your world is really just weird. so before judging a strange future world, you should really learn a lot about it, maybe read a whole book about it, and then, if you don't like it, work to change it.thank you. <title = "What the sugar coating on your cells is trying to tell you">
<tags = "['biology', 'biomechanics', 'cancer', 'chemistry', 'disease', 'health', 'illness', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'science']">
<occupation = "Chemical biologist">
this is a talk about sugar and cancer. i became interested in sugar when i was in college. not this kind of sugar. it was the sugar that our biology professors taught us about in the context of the coating of your cells. maybe you didn't know that your cells are coated with sugar. and i didn't know that, either, until i took these courses in college, but back then — and this was in, let's just call it the 1980s — people didn't know much about why our cells are coated with sugar. and when i dug through my notes, what i noticed i had written down is that the sugar coating on our cells is like the sugar coating on a peanut m and m. and people thought the sugar coating on our cells was like a protective coating that somehow made our cells stronger or tougher.but we now know, many decades later, that it's much more complicated than that, and that the sugars on our cells are actually very complex. and if you could shrink yourself down to a little miniature airplane and fly right along the surface of your cells, it might look something like this — with geographical features. and now, the complex sugars are these trees and bushes — weeping willows that are swaying in the wind and moving with the waves. and when i started thinking about all these complex sugars that are like this foliage on our cells, it became one of the most interesting problems that i encountered as a biologist and also as a chemist. and so now we tend to think about the sugars that are populating the surface of our cells as a language. they have a lot of information stored in their complex structures.but what are they trying to tell us? i can tell you that we do know some information that comes from these sugars, and it's turned out already to be incredibly important in the world of medicine.for example, one thing your sugars are telling us is your blood type. so your blood cells, your red blood cells, are coated with sugars, and the chemical structures of those sugars determine your blood type. so for example, i know that i am blood type o. how many people are also blood type o? put your hands up. it's a pretty common one, so when so few hands go up, either you're not paying attention or you don't know your blood type, and both of those are bad. but for those of you who share the blood type o with me, what this means is that we have this chemical structure on the surface of our blood cells: three simple sugars linked together to make a more complex sugar. and that, by definition, is blood type o.now, how many people are blood type a? right here. that means you have an enzyme in your cells that adds one more building block, that red sugar, to build a more complex structure. and how many people are blood type b? quite a few. you have a slightly different enzyme than the a people, so you build a slightly different structure, and those of you that are ab have the enzyme from your mother, the other enzyme from your father, and now you make both of these structures in roughly equal proportions. and when this was figured out, which is now back in the previous century, this enabled one of the most important medical procedures in the world, which, of course, is the blood transfusion. and by knowing what your blood type is, we can make sure, if you ever need a transfusion, that your donor has the same blood type, so that your body doesn't see foreign sugars, which it wouldn't like and would certainly reject.what else are the sugars on the surface of your cells trying to tell us? well, those sugars might be telling us that you have cancer. so a few decades ago, correlations began to emerge from the analysis of tumor tissue. and the typical scenario is a patient would have a tumor detected, and the tissue would be removed in a biopsy procedure and then sent down to a pathology lab where that tissue would be analyzed to look for chemical changes that might inform the oncologist about the best course of treatment. and what was discovered from studies like that is that the sugars have changed when the cell transforms from being healthy to being sick. and those correlations have come up again and again and again. but a big question in the field has been: why? why do cancers have different sugars? what's the importance of that? why does it happen, and what can we do about it if it does turn out to be related to the disease process?so, one of the changes that we study is an increase in the density of a particular sugar that's called sialic acid. and i think this is going to be one of the most important sugars of our times, so i would encourage everybody to get familiar with this word. sialic acid is not the kind of sugar that we eat. those are different sugars. this is a kind of sugar that is actually found at certain levels on all of the cells in your body. it's actually quite common on your cells. but for some reason, cancer cells, at least in a successful, progressive disease, tend to have more sialic acid than a normal, healthy cell would have. and why? what does that mean? well, what we've learned is that it has to do with your immune system.so let me tell you a little bit about the importance of your immune system in cancer. and this is something that's, i think, in the news a lot these days. you know, people are starting to become familiar with the term "cancer immune therapy." and some of you might even know people who are benefiting from these very new ways of treating cancer. what we now know is that your immune cells, which are the white blood cells coursing through your bloodstream, protect you on a daily basis from things gone bad — including cancer. and so in this picture, those little green balls are your immune cells, and that big pink cell is a cancer cell. and these immune cells go around and taste all the cells in your body. that's their job. and most of the time, the cells taste ok.but once in a while, a cell might taste bad. hopefully, that's the cancer cell, and when those immune cells get the bad taste, they launch an all-out strike and kill those cells. so we know that. we also know that if you can potentiate that tasting, if you can encourage those immune cells to actually take a big old bite out of a cancer cell, you get a better job protecting yourself from cancer every day and maybe even curing a cancer. and there are now a couple of drugs out there in the market that are used to treat cancer patients that act exactly by this process. they activate the immune system so that the immune system can be more vigorous in protecting us from cancer.in fact, one of those drugs may well have spared president jimmy carter's life. do you remember, president carter had malignant melanoma that had metastasized to his brain, and that diagnosis is one that is usually accompanied by numbers like "months to live." but he was treated with one of these new immune-stimulating drugs, and now his melanoma appears to be in remission, which is remarkable, considering the situation only a few years ago. in fact, it's so remarkable that provocative statements like this one: "cancer is having a penicillin moment," people are saying, with these new immune therapy drugs. i mean, that's an incredibly bold thing to say about a disease which we've been fighting for a long time and mostly losing the battle with. so this is very exciting.now what does this have to do with sugars? well, i'll tell you what we've learned. when an immune cell snuggles up against a cancer cell to take a taste, it's looking for signs of disease, and if it finds those signs, the cell gets activated and it launches a missile strike and kills the cell. but if that cancer cell has a dense forest of that sugar, sialic acid, well, it starts to taste pretty good. and there's a protein on immune cells that grabs the sialic acid, and if that protein gets held at that synapse between the immune cell and the cancer cell, it puts that immune cell to sleep. the sialic acids are telling the immune cell, "hey, this cell's all right. nothing to see here, move along. look somewhere else." so in other words, as long as our cells are wearing a thick coat of sialic acid, they look fabulous, right? it's amazing. and what if you could strip off that coat and take that sugar away? well, your immune system might be able to see that cancer cell for what it really is: something that needs to be destroyed.and so this is what we're doing in my lab. we're developing new medicines that are basically cell-surface lawnmowers — molecules that go down to the surface of these cancer cells and just cut off those sialic acids, so that the immune system can reach its full potential in eliminating those cancer cells from our body.so in closing, let me just remind you again: your cells are coated with sugars. the sugars are telling cells around that cell whether the cell is good or bad. and that's important, because our immune system needs to leave the good cells alone. otherwise, we'd have autoimmune diseases. but once in a while, cancers get the ability to express these new sugars. and now that we understand how those sugars mesmerize the immune system, we can come up with new medicines to wake up those immune cells, tell them, "ignore the sugars, eat the cell and have a delicious snack, on cancer."thank you. <title = ""The Sacred Art of the Ori"">
<tags = "['Africa', 'art', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'performance art']">
<occupation = "Artist, musician, lawyer, activist">
[yoruba: freeborn ijebu-ode son,] [of true ogbogbo clan,] [whose wealth and resources surpass all that europe ever had,] [whose altar is filled with gold.]this chant is called the oríkì. my grandmother used to sing it to me when i was a child in nigeria. see, an oríkì is the song of praise of the yoruba people, and this particularly speaks of treasures that the west does not have.mama — that's what i call my grandmother — told me many stories about yoruba mythology. you see, the yorubas are an ethnic group from the southwestern part of nigeria, and i was always fascinated by these stories. i was always intrigued. and yoruba culture has inspired my art since i was a child. you see, african art is not just what you buy at harlem markets in new york. every artist has a name, and every artist has a story. this is my story.see, mama had tattoos on her arms and her legs. as a child, i thought she was born with them, with beautiful black lines and detailed symbols. and then she told me that they were actually symbols from the yoruba mythology. i never knew how this was going to influence the artist that i am today. you see, as a young child, i saw art everywhere. i remember the house we lived in in ilorin, in stadium road. we had marble floors, and you know, i would look at the marble floors, and i would see all sorts of patterns and designs in it, and i thought everybody could see them. so i would call my brother, and i would be like, "ikeolu, come and see this marble design, see this pattern, see this mask." and he would tell me, "laolu, i don't see anything." so i would use ink, and i would trace out what i saw on the floor. and then when my mom noticed, she got really upset. but that didn't stop me. i switched from ink to chalk, because i got in trouble a lot with my teachers and my parents. so i remember my mom said, "laolu, we are christians. why don't you draw like other people? why don't you draw landscapes or maybe you draw chairs or furniture, or maybe even draw jesus?"you know, i could paint the whole house if i had a chance, but when i grew up, i knew being an artist was not an option, so i wanted to be the person my parents wanted me to be, so i went to law school. of course, that's my dad there. he was so proud that day. and this was what my notebooks looked like in law school. of course i would miss classes, and i would make up excuses why i wasn't going to class.but when i started working at the human rights commission as a human rights attorney, my mind was elsewhere. i saw a very tough reality. i worked with children who had to choose between getting an education and actually being forced into marriage. i was so frustrated seeing all the injustice around me, and my only outlet was art, so i started painting.this piece is called "dreamscape." so when you zoom into this piece, you're going to see a girl child and the accidental birth, the fact that our future is controlled by where we are born. now, the next one you see a man and a man holding hands, a woman and a woman holding hands. you see, in nigeria, same-sex relationship is criminalized. you can actually get 14 years for that.with my art, i like to tell stories. through my art, i like to start a conversation. so in this one, you see the map of africa, you see the questions, you see crying, and there you see syringes plugged into africa and the natural resources being drained out. so i asked myself, where does it go? who benefits from all of this? you see, with my art, the way i weave my art around the patterns, the masks, the stories, and the way i use my lines, it's all from the yoruba culture.so in 2013, i made a big gamble. i quit my job and i moved to new york city to practice art full time. of course, my parents were like, "oh, [it's just a phase.] he'll come back." but life as an artist in new york was not easy, because i was broke, no money, no gallery agents, no representation, so no gallery would show my work. so i thought to myself, i need to survive. so i started painting on clothes to make a living. i started painting on shoes. i started customizing things for people. and then soon i realized the power, because people were so proud to wear their stories. so i started painting on everything. i painted on guitars, i started doing murals, anything i could find my hand on i painted, and everything became my canvas.so one day, i was just going on my instagram feed, and i saw this picture. it was reign. she took a picture standing in front my art, and the moment i saw that photo, something happened in that moment. i could actually see my artwork go into her and come out of her literally, and that's how i started painting on human bodies. as a child i saw art on the marble floors, i saw art on walls, but now i see art on people's faces and people's bodies. i remember my grandmother, and i realized that most of my creative instincts were actually based on my childhood memories and the art on my grandmother's skin.now i look at all the people i painted, and i think to myself, like, what would it look like if we all walked around like gods and goddesses from yoruba mythology? and boom, that's how the sacred art of the ori was born. you see, ori in yoruba mythology means your soul, it means your essence, it means your instincts. and i realized that only when you tap into your ori, then you can actually move mountains. so there's something so immediate about painting on human bodies. it's like art in motion. it's like a 3d experience.so one day, i was just doing my regular work in brooklyn, and i got an email that said, "hi, i'm a big fan of your work. would you like to paint for my music video? signed, beyoncé." like, beyoncé emailed me. i was like, what? i was like, what, how did she even know me? i thought this can't be true. of course i thought it was a scam. the nigerian in me was like, nah. but incredibly enough, it was real, it was true, and things happened really fast. you see, beyoncé wanted to pay homage to new orleans, and my art reminded her of her creole origins. so when "lemonade" dropped, of course, boom, everything just went from zero to 100 real fast. people featured me in magazines, interviews. people stopped me in the street. people knew my name, like — and sometimes i had to step back and just chill, and, like, take everything in. you know, as artists, we work so hard all our lives for our art to be recognized, and for this i feel blessed. however, the attorney in me is still there, so i use my art to fight for what i believe in. my yoruba heritage is always there.i'd like to share with you tonight some of my art in motion. please, welcome with me on stage.(music) now, this is geli, and this is reign. these are the first two people i ever painted in my life, and i spent the past day painting on them. tonight, they represent my hopes and my fears. now, i put my fears on the back. i put my hopes in front. what are my hopes? i hope that people know that africa is not just one huge, nameless continent that is all the same. i also hope that people know that in nigeria, we have over 350 ethnic groups and languages, and i am just one artist from one of them. i also hope that you know that i hope i will be able to change the way people talk about african art on the continent and here, and i hope you know that african art is not just what you buy at harlem markets in new york and that every piece of art you see has a story, and every artist has a name.thank you very much. <title = "When workers own companies, the economy is more resilient">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'capitalism', 'community', 'economics', 'entrepreneur', 'inequality', 'social change', 'society', 'work']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
are you tired of your boss? are you tired of going to work and making money for other people? and who are those people anyways? those people that make money from your work. well, they're capitalists. they have capital, and they use your labor to make more capital. so if you're tired of going to work and making money for other people, then you're probably like me — just tired of capitalism. which is ironic, because i'm a capitalist. i own a small business — rco tires in compton. a few years ago, when i read van jones, and he wrote, "let's make green collar jobs in the hood," i took him really seriously. so i cofounded, own and operate a tire recycling company, and i'm really proud of what we've done. so far, we've recycled a hundred million pounds of rubber. that's 21 million gallons of oil diverted from landfills into new products.(cheers)we also employ about 15 guys — mostly people of color, most of whom are felons, and we pay above the minimum wage, and we are now proud members of the united steelworkers union. now, rco is not a cooperative now. it's a privately held company with community-minded ownership, but i would like it to become one. i would like for them to fire the boss — that's me. and i'm going to tell you why, but first, let me tell you how we got started. so a lot of people ask, "how did rco come to be?" and i have to be really honest. i leveraged my white privilege. so, here's how white privilege worked for me and rco. my white grandmother was born on her family's plantation in arkansas in 1918. she traveled with her white father west, following the oil boom. and he held various union oil jobs — jobs which would have never been given to my black great-grandfather, had he lived here at the time. granny became a hairdresser and then got a loan with her husband who built their home in west los angeles — a loan which would never have been given to a black family at the time. and after my grandfather passed away, my granny was able to keep that house because she had his pension and his health care from a state job which he held, which again, would have never been given to a black man before the anti-discrimination act of the 1960s.so, you fast-forward 30 years, and i graduate, and i want to start my own business with a pile of debt and a credit card, and no experience in the tire industry. but i had what most people didn't have. i had a clean, safe, free place to live. i moved in with my grandmother, and i was able to rent our first warehouse, buy our first truck, pay our first employees, because i didn't have to worry about paying myself, because i didn't need to feed myself, because i am the direct beneficiary of generations of white privilege.now, telling the story of white privilege is important because very often people say, "oh, we want more companies like yours. we want more rco's, we want more black-owned businesses, female-led, triple bottom line, ban the box, green manufacturing companies," right? but the question we have to ask is, where is the wealth? where is the money? where's the capital in our communities to build the types of businesses that we want?and in telling a story of the white side of my family, i needed a dozen ways where blacks were excluded from the economy, whereas the white side of my family was able to gain access and traction, and build wealth ... primarily because racism and capitalism are best homies, but — but what that means is that when we ask ourselves, "why are our communities broke?" — like, we're not just broke because we're broke; we're broke for a reason. historical context really does matter.but our history tells another story as well. there's this incredible book called "collective courage," which is the story of how thousands of african americans have been able to build businesses and schools, hospitals, farming cooperatives, banks, financial institutions — entire communities and sovereign economies, without a lot of capital. and they did it by working together and leveraging their community assets and trusting each other and putting solidarity first — not just profits by any means necessary. and they didn't have to wait around for celebrities and athletes to bring their money back to the hood. however, if you are a celebrity or an athlete, and you're listening to this, please feel free to bring your money. but they did it through cooperative economics, because they knew that capitalism was never going to finance black liberation. so, there are so many great examples in this book, and i suggest that everybody just read it because it answers the question i asked earlier, which was where are we going to get the wealth to build the types of business that we want. and the answer is going to have to be cooperative economics.there's a lot of different versions of cooperativism. what i'm talking about today is worker ownership. you may not have heard of worker ownership, but it's been an incredible tool for black economic liberation for a century, and it's also working all over the world right now. you may have heard of black wall street or maybe the zapatistas, but i'll give you an example that's a little bit closer to home. right now, today, in south bronx, is the country's largest worker-owned company. it's called cooperative home care associates, and it was founded by black and latinx home care workers who are now able to pay themselves living wages, they have full-time hours, they have benefits and a pension, through their membership as a unit of seiu. and these women owners now receive a dividend back on their ownership every year that the company has been profitable, which has been most years. so they're able to really enjoy the fruits of their labor because they fired the boss. they don't have any big investors. they don't have fat-cat ceos or absentee owners taking the profit out of the company. they each pay in about 1,000 dollars over time in order to gain ownership, and now they own their job.now, there's hundreds of more examples of companies like this springing up all across the country. and i'm so inspired by what they're doing, because it really represents an alternative to the type of economy we have now, which exploits all of us. it also represents an alternative to waiting around for big investors to bring chain stores, or big-box stores to our communities, because honestly, those types of developments, they steal resources from our communities. they put our mom-and-pop shops out of business, they make our entrepreneurs into wage workers, and they take money out of our pocket and send it to their shareholders.so, i was so inspired by all these stories of resistance and resilience that i got together with a few people here in los angeles, and we created luci. luci stands for the los angeles union cooperative initiative, and our objective is to create more worker-owned businesses here in los angeles. so far, in the last year, we've created two: pacific electric, an electrical company, and vermont gage carwash, which is right here in south-central, some of you guys might be familiar with it. this long-time carwash is now owned and operated by its 20 workers, all of whom are union members as well. so you might be wondering why the focus on union-worker ownership, but there's a lot of good reasons why the labor movement is a natural ally to the worker-ownership movement. to build these companies that we want in our community, we need a few things. we're going to need money, people and training. unions have all of those things. america's working class has been paying union dues for decades, and with it, our unions have been building dignified, decent, and democratic workplaces for us. however, union jobs are on the steep decline, and it's time for us to start calling on our unions to really bring all of their financial and political capital to bear in the creation of new, union, living-wage jobs in our communities. also, union halls are full of union members who understand the importance of solidarity and the power of collective action. these are the types of folks that want more union businesses to exist, so let's build them with them.learning from our unions, learning from our past, learning from our peers, are all going to be very important to our success, which is why i'd like to leave you with one last example and a vision for the future ... and that vision is mondragon, spain. mondragon, spain is a community built entirely around worker cooperatives. there's 260-plus businesses here, manufacturing everything from bicycles to washing machines to transformers. and this group of businesses now employs 80,000 people and earns more than 12 billion euros in revenue every year. and all of the companies there are owned by the people that work in them. they've also built universities and hospitals and financial institutions. i mean, imagine if we could build something like this in south-central. the late mayor of jackson had a similar idea. he wanted to turn his entire city into a mondragon-like cooperative economy, calling his ambitious plan "jackson rising."and when i look at mondragon, i see really what working-class people can do for ourselves when we work together and make decisions for ourselves and each other and our communities. and what's really incredible about mondragon is that while we are dreaming about them, they are dreaming about us. this community in spain has decided to launch an international initiative to create more communities like it all over the world, by linking up with unions, by supporting organizations like luci, and by educating folks about the worker-ownership model.now, here's what you can do to be a part of it. if you're a union member, go to your union meetings, and make sure that your union has a worker-ownership initiative, and become a part of it. if you're an entrepreneur, if you have a small business, or you're interested in starting one, then link up with luci or another organization like us to help you get started on the cooperative model. if you're a politician, or you work for one, or you just like talking to them, please get the city, state, federal and county legislation passed that we need in order to fund and support worker-owned businesses.and for everybody else, learn about our history, learn about our models, and seek us out so can support us, you can buy from us, invest in us, lend to us and join us, because it's really going to take all of us in order to build the more just and sustainable and resilient economy that we want for ourselves and our children.and with that, i would like to leave you with a quote from arundhati roy, and she writes ... "our strategy should not be only to confront empire, but to lay siege to it. to deprive it of oxygen. to mock it. to shame it. with our art, our literature, our music, our brilliance, our joy, our sheer relentlessness — and our ability to tell our own stories. not the stories that we're being brainwashed to believe. the corporate revolution will collapse if we refuse to buy what they're selling — their ideas, their version of history, their wars, their weapons, their sense of inevitability. because know this: they be few and we be many. they need us more than we need them. another world is not only possible, she's on her way. and on a quiet day, i can hear her breathing."thank you. <title = "Fun, fierce and fantastical African art">
<tags = "['Africa', 'TED Fellows', 'art', 'creativity', 'storytelling']">
<occupation = "Filmmaker, writer">
so, my mother's a pediatrician, and when i was young, she'd tell the craziest stories that combined science with her overactive imagination. one of the stories she told was that if you eat a lot of salt, all of the blood rushes up your legs, through your body, and shoots out the top of your head, killing you instantly. she called it "high blood pressure." this was my first experience with science fiction, and i loved it. so when i started to write my own science fiction and fantasy, i was surprised that it was considered un-african. so naturally, i asked, what is african? and this is what i know so far: africa is important. africa is the future. it is, though. and africa is a serious place where only serious things happen.so when i present my work somewhere, someone will always ask, "what's so important about it? how does it deal with real african issues like war, poverty, devastation or aids?" and it doesn't. my work is about nairobi pop bands that want to go to space or about seven-foot-tall robots that fall in love. it's nothing incredibly important. it's just fun, fierce and frivolous, as frivolous as bubble gum — "afrobubblegum."so i'm not saying that agenda art isn't important; i'm the chairperson of a charity that deals with films and theaters that write about hiv and radicalization and female genital mutilation. it's vital and important art, but it cannot be the only art that comes out of the continent. we have to tell more stories that are vibrant. the danger of the single story is still being realized. and maybe it's because of the funding. a lot of art is still dependent on developmental aid. so art becomes a tool for agenda. or maybe it's because we've only seen one image of ourselves for so long that that's all we know how to create. whatever the reason, we need a new way, and afrobubblegum is one approach. it's the advocacy of art for art's sake. it's the advocacy of art that is not policy-driven or agenda-driven or based on education, just for the sake of imagination: afrobubblegum art.and we can't all be afrobubblegumists. we have to judge our work for its potential poverty porn pitfalls. we have to have tests that are similar to the bechdel test, and ask questions like: are two or more africans in this piece of fiction healthy? are those same africans financially stable and not in need of saving? are they having fun and enjoying life? and if we can answer yes to two or more of these questions, then surely we're afrobubblegumists. and fun is political, because imagine if we have images of africans who were vibrant and loving and thriving and living a beautiful, vibrant life. what would we think of ourselves then? would we think that maybe we're worthy of more happiness? would we think of our shared humanity through our shared joy? i think of these things when i create. i think of the people and the places that give me immeasurable joy, and i work to represent them. and that's why i write stories about futuristic girls that risk everything to save plants or to race camels or even just to dance, to honor fun, because my world is mostly happy.and i know happiness is a privilege in this current splintered world where remaining hopeful requires diligence. but maybe, if you join me in creating, curating and commissioning more afrobubblegum art, there might be hope for a different view of the world, a happy africa view where children are strangely traumatized by their mother's dark sense of humor, but also they're claiming fun, fierce and frivolous art in the name of all things unseriously african. because we're afrobubblegumists and there's so many more of us than you can imagine.thank you so much. <title = "Why we need to end the era of orphanages">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'children', 'family', 'poverty', 'social change']">
<occupation = " Child protection leader, activist, author ">
these are some photos of me volunteering in a cambodian orphanage in 2006. when these photos were taken, i thought i was doing a really good thing and that i was really helping those kids. i had a lot to learn.it all started for me when i was 19 years old and went backpacking through southeast asia. when i reached cambodia, i felt uncomfortable being on holiday surrounded by so much poverty and wanted to do something to give back. so i visited some orphanages and donated some clothes and books and some money to help the kids that i met.but one of the orphanages i visited was desperately poor. i had never encountered poverty like that before in my life. they didn't have funds for enough food, clean water or medical treatment, and the sad little faces on those kids were heartbreaking. so i was compelled to do something more to help. i fund-raised in australia and returned to cambodia the following year to volunteer at the orphanage for a few months. i taught english and bought water filters and food and took all of the kids to the dentist for the first time in their lives.but over the course of the next year, i came to discover that this orphanage that i had been supporting was terribly corrupt. the director had been embezzling every cent donated to the orphanage, and in my absence, the children were suffering such gross neglect that they were forced to catch mice to feed themselves. i also found out later that the director had been physically and sexually abusing the kids. i couldn't bring myself to turn my back on children who i had come to know and care about and return to my life in australia. so i worked with a local team and the local authorities to set up a new orphanage and rescue the kids to give them a safe new home.but this is where my story takes another unexpected turn. as i adjusted to my new life running an orphanage in cambodia, (khmer) i learned to speak khmer fluently, which means that i learned to speak the khmer language fluently. and when i could communicate properly with the kids, i began to uncover some strange things. most of the children we had removed from the orphanage were not, in fact, orphans at all. they had parents, and the few that were orphaned had other living relatives, like grandparents and aunties and uncles and other siblings.so why were these children living in an orphanage when they weren't orphans? since 2005, the number of orphanages in cambodia has risen by 75 percent, and the number of children living in cambodian orphanages has nearly doubled, despite the fact that the vast majority of children living in these orphanages are not orphans in the traditional sense. they're children from poor families. so if the vast majority of children living in orphanages are not orphans, then the term "orphanage" is really just a euphemistic name for a residential care institution. these institutions go by other names as well, like "shelters," "safe houses," "children's homes," "children's villages," even "boarding schools."and this problem is not just confined to cambodia. this map shows some of the countries that have seen a dramatic increase in the numbers of residential care institutions and the numbers of children being institutionalized. in uganda, for example, the number of children living in institutions has increased by more than 1,600 percent since 1992. and the problems posed by putting kids into institutions don't just pertain to the corrupt and abusive institutions like the one that i rescued the kids from. the problems are with all forms of residential care.over 60 years of international research has shown us that children who grow up in institutions, even the very best institutions, are at serious risk of developing mental illnesses, attachment disorders, growth and speech delays, and many will struggle with an inability to reintegrate back into society later in life and form healthy relationships as adults. these kids grow up without any model of family or of what good parenting looks like, so they then can struggle to parent their own children. so if you institutionalize large numbers of children, it will affect not only this generation, but also the generations to come.we've learned these lessons before in australia. it's what happened to our "stolen generations," the indigenous children who were removed from their families with the belief that we could do a better job of raising their children.just imagine for a moment what residential care would be like for a child. firstly, you have a constant rotation of caregivers, with somebody new coming on to the shift every eight hours. and then on top of that you have a steady stream of visitors and volunteers coming in, showering you in the love and affection you're craving and then leaving again, evoking all of those feelings of abandonment, and proving again and again that you are not worthy of being loved.we don't have orphanages in australia, the usa, the uk anymore, and for a very good reason: one study has shown that young adults raised in institutions are 10 times more likely to fall into sex work than their peers, 40 times more likely to have a criminal record, and 500 times more likely to take their own lives. there are an estimated eight million children around the world living in institutions like orphanages, despite the fact that around 80 percent of them are not orphans. most have families who could be caring for them if they had the right support.but for me, the most shocking thing of all to realize is what's contributing to this boom in the unnecessary institutionalization of so many children: it's us — the tourists, the volunteers and the donors. it's the well-meaning support from people like me back in 2006, who visit these children and volunteer and donate, who are unwittingly fueling an industry that exploits children and tears families apart.it's really no coincidence that these institutions are largely set up in areas where tourists can most easily be lured in to visit and volunteer in exchange for donations. of the 600 so-called orphanages in nepal, over 90 percent of them are located in the most popular tourist hotspots. the cold, hard truth is, the more money that floods in in support of these institutions, the more institutions open and the more children are removed from their families to fill their beds. it's just the laws of supply and demand.i had to learn all of these lessons the hard way, after i had already set up an orphanage in cambodia. i had to eat a big piece of humble pie to admit that i had made a mistake and inadvertently become a part of the problem. i had been an orphanage tourist, a voluntourist. i then set up my own orphanage and facilitated orphanage tourism in order to generate funds for my orphanage, before i knew better. what i came to learn is that no matter how good my orphanage was, it was never going to give those kids what they really needed: their families.i know that it can feel incredibly depressing to learn that helping vulnerable children and overcoming poverty is not as simple as we've all been led to believe it should be. but thankfully, there is a solution. these problems are reversible and preventable, and when we know better, we can do better.the organization that i run today, the cambodian children's trust, is no longer an orphanage. in 2012, we changed the model in favor of family-based care. i now lead an amazing team of cambodian social workers, nurses and teachers. together, we work within communities to untangle a complex web of social issues and help cambodian families escape poverty. our primary focus is on preventing some of the most vulnerable families in our community from being separated in the first place. but in cases where it's not possible for a child to live with its biological family, we support them in foster care. family-based care is always better than placing a child in an institution.do you remember that first photo that i showed you before? see that girl who is just about to catch the ball? her name is torn she's a strong, brave and fiercely intelligent girl. but in 2006, when i first met her living in that corrupt and abusive orphanage, she had never been to school. she was suffering terrible neglect, and she yearned desperately for the warmth and love of her mother. but this is a photo of torn today with her family. her mother now has a secure job, her siblings are doing well in high school and she is just about to finish her nursing degree at university. for torn's family — for torn's family, the cycle of poverty has been broken. the family-based care model that we have developed at cct has been so successful, that it's now being put forward by unicef cambodia and the cambodian government as a national solution to keep children in families. and one of the best — and one of the best ways that you can help to solve this problem is by giving these eight million children a voice and become an advocate for family-based care.if we work together to raise awareness, we can make sure the world knows that we need to put an end to the unnecessary institutionalization of vulnerable children. how do we achieve that? by redirecting our support and our donations away from orphanages and residential care institutions towards organizations that are committed to keeping children in families.i believe we can make this happen in our lifetime, and as a result, we will see developing communities thrive and ensure that vulnerable children everywhere have what all children need and deserve: a family.thank you. <title = "Can a robot pass a university entrance exam?">
<tags = "['AI', 'education', 'intelligence', 'robots', 'teaching', 'technology']">
<occupation = "AI expert">
today, i'm going to talk about ai and us. ai researchers have always said that we humans do not need to worry, because only menial jobs will be taken over by machines. is that really true? they have also said that ai will create new jobs, so those who lose their jobs will find a new one. of course. but the real question is: how many of those who may lose their jobs to ai will be able to land a new one, especially when ai is smart enough to learn better than most of us?let me ask you a question: how many of you think that ai will pass the entrance examination of a top university by 2020? oh, so many. ok. so some of you may say, "of course, yes!" now singularity is the issue. and some others may say, "maybe, because ai already won against a top go player." and others may say, "no, never. uh-uh." that means we do not know the answer yet, right? so that was the reason why i started todai robot project, making an ai which passes the entrance examination of the university of tokyo, the top university in japan.this is our todai robot. and, of course, the brain of the robot is working in the remote server. it is now writing a 600-word essay on maritime trade in the 17th century. how does that sound?why did i take the entrance exam as its benchmark? because i thought we had to study the performance of ai in comparison to humans, especially on the skills and expertise which are believed to be acquired only by humans and only through education. to enter todai, the university of tokyo, you have to pass two different types of exams. the first one is a national standardized test in multiple-choice style. you have to take seven subjects and achieve a high score — i would say like an 84 percent or more accuracy rate — to be allowed to take the second stage written test prepared by todai.so let me first explain how modern ai works, taking the "jeopardy!" challenge as an example. here is a typical "jeopardy!" question: "mozart's last symphony shares its name with this planet." interestingly, a "jeopardy!" question always asks, always ends with "this" something: "this" planet, "this" country, "this" rock musician, and so on. in other words, "jeopardy!" doesn't ask many different types of questions, but a single type, which we call "factoid questions."by the way, do you know the answer? if you do not know the answer and if you want to know the answer, what would you do? you google, right? of course. why not? but you have to pick appropriate keywords like "mozart," "last" and "symphony" to search. the machine basically does the same. then this wikipedia page will be ranked top. then the machine reads the page. no, uh-uh.unfortunately, none of the modern ais, including watson, siri and todai robot, is able to read. but they are very good at searching and optimizing. it will recognize that the keywords "mozart," "last" and "symphony" are appearing heavily around here. so if it can find a word which is a planet and which is co-occurring with these keywords, that must be the answer. this is how watson finds the answer "jupiter," in this case.our todai robot works similarly, but a bit smarter in answering history yes-no questions, like, "'charlemagne repelled the magyars.' is this sentence true or false?" our robot starts producing a factoid question, like: "charlemagne repelled [this person type]" by itself. then, "avars" but not "magyars" is ranked top. this sentence is likely to be false. our robot does not read, does not understand, but it is statistically correct in many cases.for the second stage written test, it is required to write a 600-word essay like this one:[discuss the rise and fall of the maritime trade in east and southeast asia in the 17th century ...]and as i have shown earlier, our robot took the sentences from the textbooks and wikipedia, combined them together, and optimized it to produce an essay without understanding a thing. but surprisingly, it wrote a better essay than most of the students. how about mathematics? a fully automatic math-solving machine has been a dream since the birth of the word "artificial intelligence," but it has stayed at the level of arithmetic for a long, long time. last year, we finally succeeded in developing a system which solved pre-university-level problems from end to end, like this one. this is the original problem written in japanese, and we had to teach it 2,000 mathematical axioms and 8,000 japanese words to make it accept the problems written in natural language. and it is now translating the original problems into machine-readable formulas. weird, but it is now ready to solve it, i think. go and solve it. yes! it is now executing symbolic computation. even more weird, but probably this is the most fun part for the machine. now it outputs a perfect answer, though its proof is impossible to read, even for mathematicians. anyway, last year our robot was among the top one percent in the second stage written exam in mathematics. thank you.so, did it enter todai? no, not as i expected. why? because it doesn't understand any meaning. let me show you a typical error it made in the english test.[nate: we're almost at the bookstore. just a few more minutes. sunil: wait. ______ . nate: thank you! that always happens ...]two people are talking. for us, who can understand the situation —[1. "we walked for a long time." 2. "we're almost there." 3. "your shoes look expensive." 4. "your shoelace is untied."]it is obvious number four is the correct answer, right? but todai robot chose number two, even after learning 15 billion english sentences using deep learning technologies. ok, so now you might understand what i said: modern ais do not read, do not understand. they only disguise as if they do.this is the distribution graph of half a million students who took the same exam as todai robot. now our todai robot is among the top 20 percent, and it was capable to pass more than 60 percent of the universities in japan — but not todai. but see how it is beyond the volume zone of to-be white-collar workers.you might think i was delighted. after all, my robot was surpassing students everywhere. instead, i was alarmed. how on earth could this unintelligent machine outperform students — our children? right? i decided to investigate what was going on in the human world. i took hundreds of sentences from high school textbooks and made easy multiple-choice quizzes, and asked thousands of high school students to answer.here is an example:[buddhism spread to ... , christianity to ... and oceania, and islam to ...]of course, the original problems are written in japanese, their mother tongue.[ ______ has spread to oceania. 1. hinduism 2. christianity 3. islam 4. buddhism ]obviously, christianity is the answer, isn't it? it's written! and todai robot chose the correct answer, too. but one-third of junior high school students failed to answer this question. do you think it is only the case in japan? i do not think so, because japan is always ranked among the top in oecd pisa tests, measuring 15-year-old students' performance in mathematics, science and reading every three years.we have been believing that everybody can learn and learn well, as long as we provide good learning materials free on the web so that they can access through the internet. but such wonderful materials may benefit only those who can read well, and the percentage of those who can read well may be much less than we expected. how we humans will coexist with ai is something we have to think about carefully, based on solid evidence. at the same time, we have to think in a hurry because time is running out.thank you. chris anderson: noriko, thank you.noriko arai: thank you.ca: in your talk, you so beautifully give us a sense of how ais think, what they can do amazingly and what they can't do. but — do i read you right, that you think we really need quite an urgent revolution in education to help kids do the things that humans can do better than ais?na: yes, yes, yes. because we humans can understand the meaning. that is something which is very, very lacking in ai. but most of the students just pack the knowledge without understanding the meaning of the knowledge, so that is not knowledge, that is just memorizing, and ai can do the same thing. so we have to think about a new type of education.ca: a shift from knowledge, rote knowledge, to meaning.na: mm-hmm.ca: well, there's a challenge for the educators. thank you so much.na: thank you very much. thank you. <title = "How the US government spies on people who protest -- including you">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'United States', 'activism', 'democracy', 'government', 'law', 'politics', 'security', 'social change', 'society', 'technology', 'terrorism']">
<occupation = "Surveillance and cybersecurity counsel">
we are all activists now. thank you.i'll just stop here. from the families who are fighting to maintain funding for public schools, the tens of thousands of people who joined occupy wall street or marched with black lives matter to protest police brutality against african americans, families that join rallies, pro-life and pro-choice, those of us who are afraid that our friends and neighbors are going to be deported or that they'll be added to lists because they are muslim, people who advocate for gun rights and for gun control and the millions of people who joined the women's marches all across the country this last january. we are all activists now, and that means that we all have something to worry about from surveillance. surveillance means government collection and use of private and sensitive data about us. and surveillance is essential to law enforcement and to national security. but the history of surveillance is one that includes surveillance abuses where this sensitive information has been used against people because of their race, their national origin, their sexual orientation, and in particular, because of their activism, their political beliefs.about 53 years ago, dr. martin luther king jr. gave his "i have a dream" speech on the mall in washington. and today the ideas behind this speech of racial equality and tolerance are so noncontroversial that my daughters study the speech in third grade. but at the time, dr. king was extremely controversial. the legendary and notorious fbi director j. edgar hoover believed, or wanted to believe, that the civil rights movement was a soviet communist plot intended to destabilize the american government. and so hoover had his agents put bugs in dr. king's hotel rooms, and those bugs picked up conversations between civil rights leaders talking about the strategies and tactics of the civil rights movement. they also picked up sounds of dr. king having sex with women who were not his wife, and j. edgar hoover saw the opportunity here to discredit and undermine the civil rights movement. the fbi sent a package of these recordings along with a handwritten note to dr. king, and a draft of this note was found in fbi archives years later, and the letter said, "you are no clergyman and you know it. king, like all frauds, your end is approaching." the letter even seemed to encourage dr. king to commit suicide, saying, "king, there is only one thing left for you to do. you know what it is. you better take it before your filthy, abnormal, fraudulent self is bared to the nation."but the important thing is, dr. king was not abnormal. every one of us has something that we want to hide from somebody. and even more important, j. edgar hoover wasn't abnormal either. the history of surveillance abuses is not the history of one bad, megalomaniacal man. throughout his decades at the fbi, j. edgar hoover enjoyed the support of the presidents that he served, democratic and republican alike. after all, it was john f. kennedy and his brother robert kennedy who knew about and approved the surveillance of dr. king. hoover ran a program called cointelpro for 15 years which was designed to spy on and undermine civic groups that were devoted to things like civil rights, the women's rights movement, and peace groups and anti-war movements. and the surveillance didn't stop there. lyndon baines johnson, during the election campaign, had the campaign airplane of his rival barry goldwater bugged as part of his effort to win that election. and then, of course, there was watergate. burglars were caught breaking into the democratic national committee headquarters at the watergate hotel, the nixon administration was involved in covering up the burglary, and eventually nixon had to step down as president. cointelpro and watergate were a wake-up call for americans. surveillance was out of control and it was being used to squelch political challengers. and so americans rose to the occasion and what we did was we reformed surveillance law. and the primary tool we used to reform surveillance law was to require a search warrant for the government to be able to get access to our phone calls and our letters. now, the reason why a search warrant is important is because it interposes a judge in the relationship between investigators and the citizens, and that judge's job is to make sure that there's good cause for the surveillance, that the surveillance is targeted at the right people, and that the information that's collected is going to be used for legitimate government purposes and not for discriminatory ones. this was our system, and what this means is that president obama did not wiretap trump tower. the system is set up to prevent something like that from happening without a judge being involved.but what happens when we're not talking about phone calls or letters anymore? today, we have technology that makes it cheap and easy for the government to collect information on ordinary everyday people. your phone call records can reveal whether you have an addiction, what your religion is, what charities you donate to, what political candidate you support. and yet, our government collected, dragnet-style, americans' calling records for years. in 2012, the republican national convention highlighted a new technology it was planning to use, facial recognition, to identify people who were going to be in the crowd who might be activists or troublemakers and to stop them ahead of time. today, over 50 percent of american adults have their faceprint in a government database. the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms and explosives concocted a plan to find out what americans were going to gun shows by using license plate detectors to scan the license plates of cars that were in the parking lots of these events. today, we believe that over 70 percent of police departments have automatic license plate detection technology that they're using to track people's cars as they drive through town. and all of this information, the license plates, the faceprints, the phone records, your address books, your buddy lists, the photos that you upload to dropbox or google photos, and sometimes even your chats and your emails are not protected by a warrant requirement. so what that means is we have all of this information on regular people that's newly available at very low expense. it is the golden age for surveillance.now, every parent is going to understand what this means. when you have a little baby and the baby's young, that child is not able to climb out of its crib. but eventually your little girl gets older and she's able to climb out of the crib, but you tell her, "don't climb out of the crib. ok?" and every parent knows what's going to happen. some of those babies are going to climb out of the crib. right? that's the difference between ability and permission. well, the same thing is true with the government today. it used to be that our government didn't have the ability to do widespread, massive surveillance on hundreds of millions of americans and then abuse that information. but now our government has grown up, and we have that technology today. the government has the ability, and that means the law is more important than ever before. the law is supposed to say when the government has permission to do it, and it's supposed to ensure that there's some kind of ramification. we notice when those laws are broken and there's some of kind of ramification or punishment. the law is more important than ever because we are now living in a world where only rules are stopping the government from abusing this information.but the law has fallen down on the job. particularly since september 11 the law has fallen down on the job, and we do not have the rules in place that we need. and we are seeing the ramifications of that. so fusion centers are these joint task forces between local, state and federal government that are meant to ferret out domestic terrorism. and what we've seen is fusion center reports that say that you might be dangerous if you voted for a third-party candidate, or you own a "don't tread on me" flag, or you watched movies that are anti-tax. these same fusion centers have spied on muslim community groups' reading lists and on quakers who are resisting military recruiting in high schools. the internal revenue service has disproportionately audited groups that have "tea party" or "patriot" in their name. and now customs and border patrol is stopping people as they come into the country and demanding our social networking passwords which will allow them to see who our friends are, what we say and even to impersonate us online.now, civil libertarians like myself have been trying to draw people's attention to these things and fighting against them for years. this was a huge problem during the obama administration, but now the problem is worse. when the new york police department spies on muslims or a police department uses license plate detectors to find out where the officers' spouses are or those sorts of things, that is extremely dangerous. but when a president repurposes the power of federal surveillance and the federal government to retaliate against political opposition, that is a tyranny. and so we are all activists now, and we all have something to fear from surveillance. but just like in the time of dr. martin luther king, we can reform the way things are.first of all, use encryption. encryption protects your information from being inexpensively and opportunistically collected. it rolls back the golden age for surveillance.second, support surveillance reform. did you know that if you have a friend who works for the french or german governments or for an international human rights group or for a global oil company that your friend is a valid foreign intelligence target? and what that means is that when you have conversations with that friend, the us government may be collecting that information. and when that information is collected, even though it's conversations with americans, it can then be funneled to the fbi where the fbi is allowed to search through it without getting a warrant, without probable cause, looking for information about americans and whatever crimes we may have committed with no need to document any kind of suspicion. the law that allows some of this to happen is called section 702 of the fisa amendments act, and we have a great opportunity this year, because section 702 is going to expire at the end of 2017, which means that congress's inertia is on our side if we want reform. and we can pressure our representatives to actually implement important reforms to this law and protect our data from this redirection and misuse.and finally, one of the reasons why things have gotten so out of control is because so much of what happens with surveillance — the technology, the enabling rules and the policies that are either there or not there to protect us — are secret or classified. we need transparency, and we need to know as americans what the government is doing in our name so that the surveillance that takes place and the use of that information is democratically accounted for.we are all activists now, which means that we all have something to worry about from surveillance. but like in the time of dr. martin luther king, there is stuff that we can do about it. so please join me, and let's get to work.thank you. <title = "How your pictures can help reclaim lost history">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'ancient world', 'archaeology', 'conservation', 'culture', 'history', 'museums', 'photography', 'technology', 'terrorism', 'war']">
<occupation = "Digital archaeologist">
why do people deliberately destroy cultural heritage? by doing so, do they believe they're erasing our history? our cultural memory? it's true that we are losing cultural heritage to erosion and natural disasters, but this is something that is simply difficult to avoid. i'm here to show you today how we can use pictures — your pictures — to reclaim the history that is being lost using innovative technology and the effort of volunteers.in the early 20th century, archaeologists discovered hundreds of statues and artifacts at the ancient city of hatra, in northern iraq. statues like this one were found in fragments, some of them missing their heads or arms, yet the clothing that they are wearing and their pose can still tell us their story. for example, we believe that by wearing a knee-length tunic and open bare feet, this was representative of a priest. however, with a closer look at this particular piece, we can see that this tunic being worn was elaborately decorated, which has led many researchers to believe this was actually a statue of a king performing his religious functions.when the mosul cultural museum opened in 1952 in northern iraq, this statue, as well as others, were placed there to preserve them for future generations. following the us-led invasion of iraq in 2003, a few statues and artifacts were relocated to baghdad, but this statue remained. then in february of last year, a video was released, and it instantly went viral. maybe some of you remember seeing it. here's a short clip.(video) (singing in arabic)(singing ends)not a very pleasant sight, right? did you notice anything familiar in the video? there it is. there is that very statue, as it was toppled over, breaking into pieces.when matthew vincent and i saw this video, we were shocked. since we are archaeologists using innovative technology for digital preservation, an idea sprung to mind. maybe we can crowdsource the images that were taken of these artifacts before they were destroyed, to create digital reconstructions. if we can do that, maybe we can put them into a virtual museum to tell that story. and so two weeks after we saw this video, we started the project called project mosul.remember the pictures of the statue i showed you before? this is actually the crowdsourced reconstruction of it before it was destroyed. now, many of you may be wondering, how exactly does this work? well, the key to this technology is called photogrammetry, and it was invented here, in germany. it is the technology that allows us to use two-dimensional images taken of the same object from different angles to create a 3d model. i know you may be thinking this sounds like magic — but it's not. let me show you how it works. here are two crowdsourced images of the same statue. what the computer can do is it can detect similar features between the photographs — similar features of the object. then, by using multiple photos, in this case, it can begin to reconstruct the object in 3d. in this case, you have the position of the cameras when each image was taken, shown in blue.now, this is a partial reconstruction, i admit, but why would i say partial? well, simply because the statue was positioned against a wall. we don't have photographs taken of it from the back. if i wanted to complete a full digital reconstruction of this statue, i would need a proper camera, tripods, proper lighting, but we simply can't do that with crowdsourced images. think about it: how many of you, when you visit a museum, take photographs of all parts of the statue, even the back side of it? well, maybe if some of you find michelangelo's david interesting, i guess — but the thing is, if we can find more images of this object, we can improve the 3d model.when we started the project, we started it with the mosul museum in mind. we figured we may get a few images, some people interested, make one or two virtual reconstructions, but we had no idea that we had sparked something that would grow so quickly. before we knew it, we realized it was obvious: we could apply this same idea to lost heritage anywhere. and so, we decided to change the name of the project to rekrei. then, in the summer of last year, "the economist" magazine's media lab reached out to us. they asked us, "hey, would you like us to build a virtual museum to put the reconstructions back inside, to tell the story?" can you imagine us saying no? of course not. we said yes! we were so excited. this was exactly the initial dream of that project. and so now, any of you can experience recovr mosul on your phone, using google cardboard or a tablet or even youtube 360.here is a screenshot from the virtual museum. and there it is ... the partial reconstruction of the statue, as well as the lion of mosul, the first reconstruction completed by our project. although the video doesn't explicitly show the lion of mosul being destroyed, we have many other examples of large artifacts being destroyed that were simply too large to have been stolen. for example, the gate of nimrud in northern iraq. this is a digital reconstruction from before, and this is actually during the destruction. or the lion of al-lāt, in palmyra, syria: before ... and after.although virtual reconstructions are primarily the main focus of our project, some people have been asking the question: can we print them in 3d? we believe 3d printing doesn't offer a straightforward solution to lost heritage. once an object is destroyed, it's gone. but 3d printing does offer an addition to tell that story. for example, i can show you here ... there is the statue from hatra and the lion of mosul. thank you.now, if you look closely, you'll notice that there are some parts that have been printed in color, and some parts that are in white or gray. this part was added simply to hold the statues up. this works the same way if you visit a museum, and a statue is found in fragments; it's put together for the people to see it. this makes sense, right? however, we're much more interested in what virtual reality has to offer for lost heritage.here is an example of one of the tower tombs that was destroyed in palmyra. using sketchfab's online viewer, we can show that we have reconstructed three parts of the exterior of the tomb, but we also have photos of the inside, so we're beginning to create a reconstruction of the wall and the ceiling. archaeologists worked there for many, many years, so we also have architectural drawing plans of this lost heritage.unfortunately, we are not only losing cultural heritage to areas of conflict and at war — we're also losing it to natural disasters. this is a 3d model of durbar square in kathmandu, before the earthquake that occurred last april ... and this is after. you may be thinking, you didn't create these 3d models with only tourist photographs, and that's true. but what this represents is the ability for large, public organizations and private industry to come together for initiatives like ours.and so one of the major challenges of our project, really, is to find photographs that were taken before something happens, right? well, the internet is basically a database with millions of images, right? exactly. so we have begun to develop a tool that allows us to extract images from websites like flickr, based on their geotags, to complete reconstructions.because we're not only losing cultural heritage to natural disasters and in war, but we're also losing it to something else. any idea, just looking at these two pictures? maybe it's a little difficult to remember, but only a few weeks ago, this was the example of human destruction by human stupidity. because a tourist in lisbon wanted to climb onto this statue and take a selfie with it — and pulled it down with him. so we're already finding photographs to complete a digital reconstruction of this.we need to remember that the destruction of cultural heritage isn't a recent phenomenon. in the 16th century, european priests and explorers burned thousands of maya books in the americas, of which we only have a handful left. fast-forward to 2001, when the taliban blew up the bamiyan buddhas in afghanistan.you see, cultural heritage is about our shared global history. it helps us connect with our ancestors and their stories, but we're losing pieces of it every day to natural disasters and in areas of conflict. of course, the loss of human life is the most heartbreaking loss ... but cultural heritage offers us a way to preserve the memory of the people for future generations. we need your help to reclaim the history that is being lost. will you join us? <title = "Dare to refuse the origin myths that claim who you are">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'community', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'personal growth', 'race', 'religion', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Sociologist, human rights activist">
i'm chetan bhatt and when i give my name, i'm often asked, "where are you from?" and i normally say london. but of course, i know what they're really asking, so i say something like, "well, my grandparents and my mum were born in india, my dad and i were born in kenya, and i was brought up in london. and then they've got me mapped. "ah, you're a kenyan asian. i've worked with one of those." and from my name they probably assume that i'm a hindu. and this sort of fixes me for them.but what about the christians and the muslims and the atheists that i grew up with? or the socialists and the liberals, even the occasional tory? indeed, all kinds of women and men — vegetable sellers, factory workers, cooks, car mechanics — living in my working class area, in some profoundly important way, they are also a part of me and are here with me. maybe that's why i find it hard to respond to questions about identity and about origin. and it's not just a sort of teenage refusal to be labeled. it's about our own most identities, the ones that we put our hands up to, the ones that we cheer for, the ones that we fight for, the ones that we love or hate. and it's about how we apprehend ourselves as well as others. and it's about identities we just assume that we have without thinking too much about them.but our responses to questions of identity and origin have substantial social and political importance. we see the wars, the rages of identity going on all around us. we see violent religious, national and ethnic disputes. and often the conflict is based on old stories of identity and belonging and origins. and these identities are based on myths, typically about ancient, primordial origins. and these could be about adam and eve or about the supremacy of a caste or gender or about the vitality of a supposed race or about the past glories of an empire or civilization or about a piece of land that some imagined deity has gifted.now, people say that origin stories and identity myths make us feel secure. what's wrong with that? they give us a sense of belonging. identity is your cultural clothing, and it can make you feel warm and fuzzy inside. but does it really? do we really need identity myths to feel safe? because i see religious, national, ethnic disputes as adding to human misery.can i dare you to refuse every origin myth that claims you? what if we reject every single primordial origin myth and develop a deeper sense of personhood, one responsible to humanity as a whole rather than to a particular tribe, a radically different idea of humanity that exposes how origin myths mystify, disguise global power, rapacious exploitation, poverty, the worldwide oppression of women and girls, and of course massive, accelerating inequalities?now, origin myths are closely linked to tradition, and the word tradition points to something old and permanent, almost natural, and people assume tradition is just history, simply the past condensed into a nice story. but let's not confuse tradition with history. the two are often in severe conflict. origin stories are usually recently created fictions of ancient belonging, and they're absurd given the complexity of humanity and our vastly interconnected, even if very unequal world. and today we see claims to tradition that claim to be ancient changing rapidly in front of our eyes.i was brought up in the 1970s near wembley with asian, english, caribbean, irish families living in our street, and the neo-nazi national front was massive then with regular marches and attacks on us and a permanent threat and often a frequent reality of violence against us on the streets, in our homes, typically by neo-nazis and other racists. and i remember during a general election a leaflet came through our letter box with a picture of the national front candidate for our area. and the picture was of our next-door neighbor. he threatened to shoot me once when i played in the garden as a kid, and many weekends, shaven-headed national front activists arrived at his house and emerged with scores of placards screaming that they wanted us to go back home. but today he's one of my mum's best mates. he's a very lovely, gentle and kind man, and at some point in his political journey out of fascism he embraced a broader idea of humanity.there was a hindu family that we got to know well — and you have to understand that life in our street was a little bit like the setting for an asian soap opera. everyone knew everyone else's business, even if they didn't want it to be known by anyone at all. you really had no choice in this matter. but in this family, there was a quiet little boy who went to the same school as i did, and after i left school, i didn't hear much more about him, except that he'd gone off to india. now around 2000, i remember seeing this short book. the book was unusual because it was written by a british supporter of al qaeda, and in it the author calls for attacks in britain. this is in 1999, so 9/11 and the invasion of iraq was still in the future, and he helped scout new york bombing targets. he taught others how to make a dirty bomb to use on the london underground, and he plotted a massive bombing campaign in london's shopping areas. he's a very high-risk security prisoner in the uk and one of the most important al qaeda figures to be arrested in britain.the author of that book was the very same quiet little boy who went to my school. so a hindu boy from britain became an al qaeda fighter and a most-wanted international terrorist, and he rejected what people would call his hindu or indian or british identity, and he became someone else. he refused to be who he was. he recreated himself, and this kind of journey is very common for young men and women who become involved in al qaeda or islamic state or other transnational armed groups. al qaeda's media spokesman is a white american from a jewish and catholic mixed background, and neither he nor the boy from my school were from muslim backgrounds. there's no point in asking them where are they from. a more important question is where they're going.and i would also put it to you that exactly the same journey occurs for those young men and women who were brought up in muslim family backgrounds. most of those who join al qaeda and other salafi jihadi groups from europe, asia, north america, even in many cases the middle east are those who have comprehensively rejected their backgrounds to become, in essence, new people. they spend an enormous amount of time attacking their parents' backgrounds as profane, impure, blasphemous, the wrong type of islam, and their vision instead is a fantastical view of cosmic apocalypse. it's a born again vision. discard your past, your society, your family and friends since they're all impure. instead, become someone else, your true self, your authentic self. now, this isn't about a return to the past. it's about using a forgery of the past to envision an appalling future which begins today at year zero. this is why over 80 percent of the victims of al qaeda and islamic state are people from muslim backgrounds. the first act by salafi jihadi groups when they take over an area is to destroy existing muslim institutions including mosques, shrines, preachers, practices. their main purpose is to control and punish people internally, to dictate the spaces that women may go, their clothing, family relations, beliefs, even the minute detail of how one prays. and you get the impression in the news that they are after us in the west, but they are actually mainly after people from other muslim backgrounds. in their view, no other muslim can ever be pure enough, so ordinary beliefs and practices that have existed for centuries are attacked as impure by teenagers from birmingham or london who know nothing about the histories that they so joyously obliterate.now here, their claim to tradition is at war with history, but they're nevertheless very certain about their purity and about the impurity of others. purity, certainty, the return to authentic tradition, the quest for these can lead to lethal visions of perfect societies and perfected people.this is what the main hindu fundamentalist organization in india looks like today at its mass rally. maybe it reminds you of the 1930s in italy or germany, and the movement's roots are indeed in fascism. it was a member of the same hindu fundamentalist movement who shot dead mahatma gandhi. hindu fundamentalists today view this murderer as a national hero, and they want to put up statues of him throughout india. they've been involved for decades in large-scale mass violence against minorities. they ban books, art, films. they attack romantic couples on valentine's day, christians on christmas day. they don't like others talking critically about what they see as their ancient culture or using its images or caricaturing it or drawing cartoons about it. but the people making the strongest possible claims about ancient, timeless hindu religion are dressed in brown shorts and white shirts while claiming, oddly, to be the original aryan race, just like the violent salafi jihadis who make their claims about their primordial religion while dressed in black military uniforms and wearing balaclavas.these people are manufacturing pure, pristine identities of conviction and of certainty. fundamentalists see religion and culture as their sole property, a property. but religions and cultures are processes. they're not things. they're impermanent. they're messy. they're impure. look at any religion and you'll see disputes and arguments going all the way down.any criticism of religion in any form has to therefore be part of the expansive sense of humanity we should aspire to. i respect your right to have and to express your religion or your culture or your opinion, but i don't necessarily have to respect the content. i might like some of it. i might like how an old church looks, for example, but this isn't the same thing. similarly, i have a human right to say something that you may find offensive, but you do not have a human right not to be offended. in a genuine democracy, we're constantly offended since people express different views all the time. they also change their views, so their views are impermanent. you cannot fix someone's political views based on their religious or national or cultural background.now, these points about religious purity also apply to nationalism and to racism. i'm always puzzled to have pride in your national or ethnic identity, pride in the accident of birth from a warm and cozy womb, belief in your superiority because of the accident of birth.these people have very firm ideas about what belongs and what doesn't belong inside the cozy national cultures that they imagine. and i'm going to caricature a bit here, but only a little bit. i want you to imagine the supporter of some little englander or british nationalist political party, and he's sitting at home and he's screaming about foreigners invading his country while watching fox news, an american cable channel owned by an australian on his south korean television set which was bought by his spanish credit card which is paid off monthly by his high-street british bank which has its headquarters in hong kong. he supports a british football team owned by a russian. his favorite brand of fish and chips is owned by a swedish venture capitalist firm. the church he sometimes goes to has its creed decided in meetings in ghana. his union jack underpants were made in india. and — thank you.and they're laundered regularly by a very nice polish lady. there is no pure ethnicity, national culture, and the ethical choices we have today are far wider than being forced to choose between racist right and religious right visions, dismal visions of culture.now, culture isn't just about language, food, clothing and music, but gender relations, ancient monuments, a heritage of sacred texts. but culture can also be what has been decided to be culture by those who have a political stake in pounding culture into the shape of a prison. big political identity claims are elite bids for power. they're not answers to social or economic or political injustices. they often obscure them. and what about the large number of people across the globe who can't point to a monument from their past, who don't possess a sacred written text, who can't hark back to the past glories of a civilization or empire? are these people less a part of humanity?what about you, now, listening to this? what about you and your identity, because you stitch your experiences and your thoughts into a continuous person moving forward in time. and this is what you are when you say, "i," "am," or "me." but this also includes all of your hopes and dreams, all of the you's that could have been, and it includes all the other people and the things that are in the biography of who you are. they, the others, are also a part of you, moving forward with you. your authentic self, if such a thing exists, is a complex, messy and uncertain self, and that is a very good thing. why not value those impurities and uncertainties? maybe clinging to pure identities is a sign of immaturity, and ethnic, nationalist and religious traditions are bad for you. why not be skeptical about every primordial origin claim made on your behalf? why not reject the identity myths that call on you to belong, that politicians and community leaders, so-called community leaders, place on you? if we don't need origin stories and fixed identities, we can challenge ourselves to think creatively about each other and our future.and here culture always takes care of itself. i'm not worried about culture. cultures are creative, dynamic processes, not imposed laws and boundaries.this is abu al-walid muhammad ibn ahmad ibn rushd, a very senior muslim judge and thinker in cordoba in the 12th century, and his writings were considered deeply blasphemous, heretical and evil. long after he died, followers of his work were ruthlessly hunted down, banished and killed over several centuries by the most powerful religious institution of the medieval period. that institution was the roman catholic church. why? because ibn rushd said that something true in religion may conflict with something that your reason finds to be true on earth, but the latter is still true. there are two distinct worlds of truth, one based on our reason and evidence, and one that is divine, and the state, political power, social law are in the realm of reason. religious life is a different realm. they should be kept separated. social and political life should be governed by our reason, not by religion. and you can see why the church was upset by his writings, as indeed were some muslims during his lifetime, because he gives us a strong statement of secularism of a kind which is normal in europe today.now, history plays many tricks on us. it undermines our fixed truths and what we believe to be our culture and their culture. ibn rushd, someone who happens to be a muslim, is considered one of the key influences in the introduction and spread of secularism in europe.so against religious, nationalist and racial purists of all kinds, can you make his story a part of your own, not because he happened to be a muslim, not because he happened to be an arab, but because he was a human being with some very good ideas that shook his world and ours.thank you. <title = "A smog vacuum cleaner and other magical city designs">
<tags = "['architecture', 'art', 'cities', 'creativity', 'design', 'environment', 'future', 'innovation', 'invention', 'product design', 'public spaces', 'sustainability', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Artist">
do you remember these glow-in-the-dark little stars which you had on the ceiling when you were a boy or a girl? yes? it is light. it is pure light. i think i stared at them way too long when i was a five-year-old, you know? it's so beautiful: no energy bill, no maintenance. it is there.so two years ago, we went back to the lab, making it more durable, more light-emitting, with the experts. and at the same time, we got a request from this guy — van gogh, the famous van gogh foundation — who wanted to celebrate his 125th anniversary in the netherlands. and they came to me and asked, "can you make a place where he feels more alive again in the netherlands?" and i liked that question a lot, so in way, we sort of started to connect these two different worlds. this is how my brain works, by the way. i would love to keep on doing this for an hour, but ok — and this is the result that we made: a bicycle path which charges at daytime via the sun and glows at night, up to eight hours. thank you.... hinting towards a future which should be energy friendly and linking up the local grounds as van gogh literally walked and lived there in 1883. and you can go there every night for free, no ticket needed. people experience the beauty of cycling through the starry night, thinking about green energy and safety.i want to create places where people feel connected again. and it was somehow great to make these projects happen with the industry, with the infrastructure companies. so when these sheikhs of qatar started to call: "how much for 10 kilometers?" yeah, really, that's a weird call you're going to get. but it's fascinating that this is not just a sort of one-off, nice-to-have special. i think this kind of creative thinking, these kinds of connections — it's the new economy.the world economic forum, the think tank in geneva, did an interview with a lot of smart people all around the world, asking, "what are the top 10 skills you and i need to become successful?" and what is interesting, what you see here: it's not about money or being really good in c++, although these are great skills to have, i have to admit. but look at number three, creativity; number two, critical thinking; number one, complex problem-solving — all the things a robot or a computer is really bad at. and this makes me very optimistic, very hopeful for the new world, that as we will live in this hyper-technological world, our human skills — our desire for empathy, our desire for curiosity, our desire for beauty — will be more appreciated again, and we will live in a world where creativity is our true capital.and a creative process like that — i don't know how it works for you, but in my brain, it always starts with a question: why? why does a jellyfish emit light? or a firefly? or why do be accept pollution? this is from my room in beijing three years ago. left image is a good day — saturday. i can see the cars and the people, the birds; life is ok in a dense urban city. and on the right image — holy moly. pollution — complete layers. i couldn't even see the other side of the city. and this image made me really sad. this is not the bright future we envision here at ted — this is the horror. we live five to six years shorter; children have lung cancer when they're six years old. and so in a weird, beautiful way, i, at that moment, became inspired by beijing smog.and the governments all around the world are fighting their war on smog, but i wanted to make something within the now. so we decided to build the largest smog vacuum cleaner in the world. it sucks up polluted air, cleans it and then releases it. and we built the first one. so it sucks up 30,000 cubic meters per hour, cleans it on the nano level — the pm2.5, pm10 particles — using very little electricity, and then releases the clean air, so we have parks, playgrounds, which are 55 to 75 percent more clean than the rest of the city. yes! and every month or so, it opens like a spaceship — like a marilyn monroe with the — well, you know what. anyway. so this ... this is the stuff we are capturing. this is beijing smog. this is in our lungs right now. if you live next to a highway, it's the same as 17 cigarettes per day. are we insane? when did we say yes to that? and we had buckets of this disgusting material in our studio, and on a monday morning, we were discussing, we were like, "shit, what should we do with it? should we throw it away?" like, "help!" and then we realized: no, no, no, no, no — waste should not exist. waste for the one should be food for the other. so, here, maybe show it around. do not put this in your coffee. and we realized that 42 percent is made out of carbon, and carbon, of course, under high pressure, you get ... diamonds. so, inspired by that, we compress it for 30 minutes —(cracking sound)and make smog-free rings. and so by sharing — yeah, really! and so by sharing a ring, you donate 1,000 cubic meters of clean air to the city the tower is in. i have one here — a little floating cube. i will give one to you. i'm not going to propose, don't worry. are we good? you can show it around.and we put this online — kickstarter campaign, crowdfunding. and people started to preorder it, but more importantly, they started to prepay it. so the finance we made with the jewelry helped us to realize, to build the first tower. and that's powerful. so the waste the activator, it was the enabler. also, the feedback from the community — this is a wedding couple from india, where he proposed to her with the smog-free ring as a sign of true beauty, as a sign of hope. and she said yes. i love this image so much for a lot of different reasons. and right now, the project is touring through china, actually with the support of china's central government. so the first goal is to create local clean-air parks, and that works already quite well — 55, 75 percent more clean. and at the same time, we team up with the ngos, with the governors, with the students, with the tech people, to say, "hey, what do we need to do to make a whole city smog-free?" it's about the dream of clean air. we do workshops. new ideas pop up. these are smog-free bicycles which — i'm dutch, yes? — i have this "bicycle dna" inside of me somewhere. and so it sucks up polluted air, it cleans it and releases it, in the fight against the car, in the celebration of the bicycle.and so right now, we're working on a sort of "package deal," so to speak, where we say, "smog-free towers, smog-free rings." we go to the mayors or the governors of this world, and say, "we can guarantee a short-term reduction of pollution between 20 and 40 percent. please sign here right now." yes? thank you. so it's all about connecting new technology with creative thinking. and if you start thinking about that, there is so much you can imagine, so much more you can do. we worked on dance floors which produce electricity when you dance on them. we did the design for that — 2008. so it moves eight or nine millimeters, produces 25 watts. the electricity that we generate is used for the lighting or the dj booth. so some of the sustainability is about doing more, not about doing less.but also on a larger scale, the netherlands, where i'm from, we live below sea level. so because of these beauties — the afsluitdijk: 32 kilometers, built by hand in 1932 — we live with the water, we fight with the water, we try to find harmony, but sometimes we forget. and therefore, we made "waterlicht," a combination of leds and lenses, which show how high the water level would be — global change — if we stop. if, today, we all go home and we say, "oh, whatever, somebody else will do it for us," or we'll wait for government or whomever. you know, we're not going to do that. it goes wrong. and we placed this in public spaces all around the world. thousands of people showed up. thank you. you're too nice, you're too nice. that's not good for a designer.so thousands of people showed up, and some, actually, were scared. and they left; they experienced the floods in 1953. and others were mesmerized. can we make floating cities? can we generate electricity from the change in tides? so i think it's so important to make experiences — collective experiences — where people feel connected with a vision, with a future and trigger what is possible.at the same time, you know, these kinds of things — they're not easy, yes? it's a struggle. and what i experienced in my life is that a lot of people say they want innovation, and they want the next and the new, the future. but the moment you present a new idea, there's this weird tendency to reply to every new idea starting with two words. which are?(audience guesses)no, not "how much?" it's more annoying. what is it, guys? or you're really blessed people? that's really good."yes, but." very good. "yes, but: it's too expensive, it's too cheap, it's too fast, it's too slow, it's too beautiful, it's too ugly, it cannot be done, it already exists." i heard everything about the same project in the same week. and i got really, really annoyed. i got a bit of gray hair, started to dress in black like a true architect. and one morning i woke up and i said, "daan, stop. this is dragging you down. you have to do something with this. you have to use it as an ingredient, as a component." and so we decided to build, to realize the famous "yes, but" chair. and this is an existing chair by friso kramer, a dutch design. but we gave it a little "update," a little "hack," so to speak. we placed a little voice-recognition element right here. so the moment you sit on that chair, and you say those two horrible, creative-destructive, annoying little words — you get a short — but pretty intense little shock on the back side of your bottom. and — and that works; yeah, that works. some clients have left us, they got really mad. fortunately, the good ones have stayed. and, of course, we also apply it to ourselves.but ladies and gentlemen, let's not be afraid. let's be curious, yes? and, you know, walking through ted in these days and hearing the other speakers and feeling the energy of the crowd, i was remembering this quote of the canadian author, marshall mcluhan, who once famously said, "on spacecraft earth, there are no passengers. we are all crew." and i think this so beautiful. this is so beautiful! we're not just consumers; we're makers: we make decisions, we make new inventions, we make new dreams. and i think if we start implementing that kind of thinking even more within today, there's still a whole new world to be explored.all right, thank you. thank you. <title = "How young people join violent extremist groups -- and how to stop them">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'security', 'social media', 'terrorism', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Policy researcher">
so in 2011, i altered my name so that i could participate in far right youth camp in hungary. i was doing a phd looking at youth political socialization — why young people were developing political ideologies in a post-communist setting, and i saw that a lot of young people i was talking to were joining the far right, and this was astounding to me. so i wanted to enroll in this youth camp to get a better understanding of why people were joining.so a colleague enrolled me, and my last name sounds a little bit too jewish. so erin got turned into iréna, and saltman got turned into sós, which means "salty" in hungarian. and in hungarian, your last name goes first, so my james bond name turned into "salty irena," which is not something i would have naturally chosen for myself.but going to this camp, i was further shocked to realize that it was actually really fun. they talked very little about politics. it was mostly learning how to ride horses, shooting a bow and arrow, live music at night, free food and alcohol, also some air-gun target practice using mainstream politicians' faces as targets. and this seemed like a very, actually, friendly, inclusive group until you started talking or mentioning anything to do with the roma population, jewish people or immigrants, and then the discourse would become very hate-based very quickly.so it led me into my work now, where we pose the question, "why do people join violent extremist movements, and how do we effectively counter these processes?" in the aftermath of horrible atrocities and attacks in places like belgium, france, but all over the world, sometimes it's easier for us to think, "well, these must be sociopaths, these must be naturally violent individuals. they must have something wrong with their upbringing." and what's really tragic is that oftentimes there's no one profile. many people come from educated backgrounds, different socioeconomic backgrounds, men and women, different ages, some with families, some single. so why? what is this allure? and this is what i want to talk you through, as well as how do we challenge this in a modern era?we do know, through research, that there are quite a number of different things that affect somebody's process of radicalization, and we categorize these into push and pull factors. and these are pretty much similar for far right, neo-nazi groups all the way to islamist extremist and terrorist groups. and push factors are basically what makes you vulnerable to a process of radicalization, to joining a violent extremist group. and these can be a lot of different things, but roughly, a sense of alienation, a sense of isolation, questioning your own identity, but also feeling that your in-group is under attack, and your in group might be based on a nationality or an ethnicity or a religion, and feeling that larger powers around you are doing nothing to help.now, push factors alone do not make you a violent extremist, because if that were the fact, those same factors would go towards a group like the roma population, and they're not a violently mobilized group. so we have to look at the pull factors. what are these violent extremist organizations offering that other groups are not offering? and actually, this is usually very positive things, very seemingly empowering things, such as brotherhood and sisterhood and a sense of belonging, as well as giving somebody a spiritual purpose, a divine purpose to build a utopian society if their goals can be met, but also a sense of empowerment and adventure.when we look at foreign terrorist fighters, we see young men with the wind in their hair out in the desert and women going to join them to have nuptials out in the sunset. it's very romantic, and you become a hero. for both men and women, that's the propaganda being given. so what extremist groups are very good at is taking a very complicated, confusing, nuanced world and simplifying that world into black and white, good and evil. and you become what is good, challenging what is evil.so i want to talk a little bit about isis, daesh, because they have been a game changer in how we look at these processes, and through a lot of the material and their tactics. they're very much a modern movement. one of the aspects is the internet and the usage of social media, as we've all seen in headlines tweeting and videos of beheadings. but the internet alone does not radicalize you. the internet is a tool. you don't go online shopping for shoes and accidentally become a jihadist. however, what the internet does do is it is a catalyst.it provides tools and scale and rapidity that doesn't exist elsewhere. and with isis, all of a sudden, this idea of a cloaked, dark figure of a jihadist changed for us. all of a sudden, we were in their kitchens. we saw what they were eating for dinner. they were tweeting. we had foreign terrorist fighters tweeting in their own languages. we had women going out there talking about their wedding day, about the births of their children. we had gaming culture, all of a sudden, and references to grand theft auto being made.so all of a sudden, they were homey. they became human. and the problem is that trying to counter it, lots of governments and social media companies just tried to censor. how do we get rid of terrorist content? and it became a cat-and-mouse game where we would see accounts taken down and they'd just come back up, and an arrogance around somebody having a 25th account and material that was disseminated everywhere.but we also saw a dangerous trend — violent extremists know the rules and regulations of social media, too. so we would see a banal conversation with a recruiter start on a mainstream platform, and at the point at which that conversation was going to become illegal, they would jump to a smaller, less regulated, more encrypted platform. so all of a sudden, we couldn't track where that conversation went. so this is a problem with censorship, which is why we need to develop alternatives to censorship.isis is also a game-changer because it's state-building. it's not just recruiting combatants; it's trying to build a state. and what that means is all of a sudden, your recruitment model is much more broad. you're not just trying to get fighters — now you need architects, engineers, accountants, hackers and women. we've actually seen a huge increase of women going in the last 24, but especially 12 months. some countries, one in four of the people going over to join are now women. and so, this really changes who we're trying to counter this process with.now, not all doom and gloom. so the rest i'd like to talk about some of the positive things and the new innovation in trying to prevent and counter violent extremism.preventing is very different than countering, and actually, you can think of it in medical terms. so preventative medicine is, how do we make it so you are naturally resilient to this process of radicalization, whereas that is going to be different if somebody is already showing a symptom or a sign of belonging to a violent extremist ideology. and so in preventative measures, we're talking more about really broad groups of people and exposure to ideas to make them resilient. whereas it's very different if somebody is starting to question and agree with certain things online, and it's also very different if somebody already has a swastika tattoo and is very much embedded within a group. how do you reach them?so i'd like to go through three examples of each one of those levels and talk you through what some of the new ways of engaging with people are becoming.one is "extreme dialogue," and it's an educational program that we helped develop. this one is from canada, and it's meant to create dialogues within a classroom setting, using storytelling, because violent extremism can be very hard to try to explain, especially to younger individuals. so we have a network of former extremists and survivors of extremism that tell their stories through video and create question-giving to classrooms, to start a conversation about the topic.these two examples show christianne, who lost her son, who radicalized and died fighting for isis, and daniel is a former neo-nazi who was an extremely violent neo-nazi, and they pose questions about their lives and where they're at and regret, and force a classroom to have a dialogue around it.now, looking at that middle range of individuals, actually, we need a lot of civil society voices. how do you interact with people that are looking for information online, that are starting to toy with an ideology, that are doing those searching identity questions? how do we provide alternatives for that? and that's when we combine large groups of civil society voices with creatives, techies, app developers, artists, comedians, and we can create really specified content and actually, online, disseminate it to very strategic audiences. so one example would be creating a satirical video which makes fun of islamophobia, and targeting it to 15- to 20-year-olds online that have an interest in white power music and live specifically in manchester.we can use these marketing tools to be very specific, so that we know when somebody's viewing, watching and engaging with that content, it's not just the average person, it's not me or you — it's a very specific audience that we are looking to engage with.even more downstream, we developed a pilot program called "one to one," where we took former extremists and we had them reach out directly to a group of labeled neofascists as well as islamist extremists, and put direct messages through facebook messenger into their inbox, saying, "hey, i see where you're going. i've been there. if you want to talk, i'm here." now, we kind of expected death threats from this sort of interaction. it's a little alarming to have a former neo-nazi say, "hey, how are you?" but actually, we found that around 60 percent of the people reached out to responded, and of that, around another 60 percent had sustained engagement, meaning that they were having conversations with the hardest people to reach about what they were going through, planting seeds of doubt and giving them alternatives for talking about these subjects, and that's really important.so what we're trying to do is actually bring unlikely sectors to the table. we have amazing activists all over the world, but oftentimes, their messages are not strategic or they don't actually reach the audiences they want to reach. so we work with networks of former extremists. we work with networks of young people in different parts of the world. and we work with them to bring the tech sector to the table with artists and creatives and marketing expertise so that we can actually have a more robust and challenging of extremism that works together.so i would say that if you are in the audience and you happen to be a graphic designer, a poet, a marketing expert, somebody that works in pr, a comedian — you might not think that this is your sector, but actually, the skills that you have right now might be exactly what is needed to help challenge extremism effectively.thank you. <title = "How to build a company where the best ideas win">
<tags = "['algorithm', 'business', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'decision-making', 'innovation', 'investment', 'leadership', 'personal growth', 'technology', 'work']">
<occupation = "Hedge fund chair">
whether you like it or not, radical transparency and algorithmic decision-making is coming at you fast, and it's going to change your life. that's because it's now easy to take algorithms and embed them into computers and gather all that data that you're leaving on yourself all over the place, and know what you're like, and then direct the computers to interact with you in ways that are better than most people can.well, that might sound scary. i've been doing this for a long time and i have found it to be wonderful. my objective has been to have meaningful work and meaningful relationships with the people i work with, and i've learned that i couldn't have that unless i had that radical transparency and that algorithmic decision-making. i want to show you why that is, i want to show you how it works. and i warn you that some of the things that i'm going to show you probably are a little bit shocking.since i was a kid, i've had a terrible rote memory. and i didn't like following instructions, i was no good at following instructions. but i loved to figure out how things worked for myself. when i was 12, i hated school but i fell in love with trading the markets. i caddied at the time, earned about five dollars a bag. and i took my caddying money, and i put it in the stock market. and that was just because the stock market was hot at the time. and the first company i bought was a company by the name of northeast airlines. northeast airlines was the only company i heard of that was selling for less than five dollars a share. and i figured i could buy more shares, and if it went up, i'd make more money. so, it was a dumb strategy, right? but i tripled my money, and i tripled my money because i got lucky. the company was about to go bankrupt, but some other company acquired it, and i tripled my money. and i was hooked. and i thought, "this game is easy." with time, i learned this game is anything but easy.in order to be an effective investor, one has to bet against the consensus and be right. and it's not easy to bet against the consensus and be right. one has to bet against the consensus and be right because the consensus is built into the price. and in order to be an entrepreneur, a successful entrepreneur, one has to bet against the consensus and be right. i had to be an entrepreneur and an investor — and what goes along with that is making a lot of painful mistakes. so i made a lot of painful mistakes, and with time, my attitude about those mistakes began to change. i began to think of them as puzzles. that if i could solve the puzzles, they would give me gems. and the puzzles were: what would i do differently in the future so i wouldn't make that painful mistake? and the gems were principles that i would then write down so i would remember them that would help me in the future. and because i wrote them down so clearly, i could then — eventually discovered — i could then embed them into algorithms. and those algorithms would be embedded in computers, and the computers would make decisions along with me; and so in parallel, we would make these decisions. and i could see how those decisions then compared with my own decisions, and i could see that those decisions were a lot better. and that was because the computer could make decisions much faster, it could process a lot more information and it can process decisions much more — less emotionally. so it radically improved my decision-making.eight years after i started bridgewater, i had my greatest failure, my greatest mistake. it was late 1970s, i was 34 years old, and i had calculated that american banks had lent much more money to emerging countries than those countries were going to be able to pay back and that we would have the greatest debt crisis since the great depression. and with it, an economic crisis and a big bear market in stocks. it was a controversial view at the time. people thought it was kind of a crazy point of view. but in august 1982, mexico defaulted on its debt, and a number of other countries followed. and we had the greatest debt crisis since the great depression. and because i had anticipated that, i was asked to testify to congress and appear on "wall street week," which was the show of the time. just to give you a flavor of that, i've got a clip here, and you'll see me in there.(video) mr. chairman, mr. mitchell, it's a great pleasure and a great honor to be able to appear before you in examination with what is going wrong with our economy. the economy is now flat — teetering on the brink of failure.martin zweig: you were recently quoted in an article. you said, "i can say this with absolute certainty because i know how markets work."ray dalio: i can say with absolute certainty that if you look at the liquidity base in the corporations and the world as a whole, that there's such reduced level of liquidity that you can't return to an era of stagflation."i look at that now, i think, "what an arrogant jerk!" i was so arrogant, and i was so wrong. i mean, while the debt crisis happened, the stock market and the economy went up rather than going down, and i lost so much money for myself and for my clients that i had to shut down my operation pretty much, i had to let almost everybody go. and these were like extended family, i was heartbroken. and i had lost so much money that i had to borrow 4,000 dollars from my dad to help to pay my family bills.it was one of the most painful experiences of my life ... but it turned out to be one of the greatest experiences of my life because it changed my attitude about decision-making. rather than thinking, "i'm right," i started to ask myself, "how do i know i'm right?" i gained a humility that i needed in order to balance my audacity. i wanted to find the smartest people who would disagree with me to try to understand their perspective or to have them stress test my perspective. i wanted to make an idea meritocracy. in other words, not an autocracy in which i would lead and others would follow and not a democracy in which everybody's points of view were equally valued, but i wanted to have an idea meritocracy in which the best ideas would win out. and in order to do that, i realized that we would need radical truthfulness and radical transparency.what i mean by radical truthfulness and radical transparency is people needed to say what they really believed and to see everything. and we literally tape almost all conversations and let everybody see everything, because if we didn't do that, we couldn't really have an idea meritocracy. in order to have an idea meritocracy, we have let people speak and say what they want. just to give you an example, this is an email from jim haskel — somebody who works for me — and this was available to everybody in the company. "ray, you deserve a 'd-' for your performance today in the meeting ... you did not prepare at all well because there is no way you could have been that disorganized." isn't that great? that's great. it's great because, first of all, i needed feedback like that. i need feedback like that. and it's great because if i don't let jim, and people like jim, to express their points of view, our relationship wouldn't be the same. and if i didn't make that public for everybody to see, we wouldn't have an idea meritocracy.so for that last 25 years that's how we've been operating. we've been operating with this radical transparency and then collecting these principles, largely from making mistakes, and then embedding those principles into algorithms. and then those algorithms provide — we're following the algorithms in parallel with our thinking. that has been how we've run the investment business, and it's how we also deal with the people management.in order to give you a glimmer into what this looks like, i'd like to take you into a meeting and introduce you to a tool of ours called the "dot collector" that helps us do this. a week after the us election, our research team held a meeting to discuss what a trump presidency would mean for the us economy. naturally, people had different opinions on the matter and how we were approaching the discussion. the "dot collector" collects these views. it has a list of a few dozen attributes, so whenever somebody thinks something about another person's thinking, it's easy for them to convey their assessment; they simply note the attribute and provide a rating from one to 10. for example, as the meeting began, a researcher named jen rated me a three — in other words, badly — for not showing a good balance of open-mindedness and assertiveness. as the meeting transpired, jen's assessments of people added up like this. others in the room have different opinions. that's normal. different people are always going to have different opinions. and who knows who's right? let's look at just what people thought about how i was doing. some people thought i did well, others, poorly. with each of these views, we can explore the thinking behind the numbers. here's what jen and larry said. note that everyone gets to express their thinking, including their critical thinking, regardless of their position in the company. jen, who's 24 years old and right out of college, can tell me, the ceo, that i'm approaching things terribly.this tool helps people both express their opinions and then separate themselves from their opinions to see things from a higher level. when jen and others shift their attentions from inputting their own opinions to looking down on the whole screen, their perspective changes. they see their own opinions as just one of many and naturally start asking themselves, "how do i know my opinion is right?" that shift in perspective is like going from seeing in one dimension to seeing in multiple dimensions. and it shifts the conversation from arguing over our opinions to figuring out objective criteria for determining which opinions are best.behind the "dot collector" is a computer that is watching. it watches what all these people are thinking and it correlates that with how they think. and it communicates advice back to each of them based on that. then it draws the data from all the meetings to create a pointilist painting of what people are like and how they think. and it does that guided by algorithms. knowing what people are like helps to match them better with their jobs. for example, a creative thinker who is unreliable might be matched up with someone who's reliable but not creative. knowing what people are like also allows us to decide what responsibilities to give them and to weigh our decisions based on people's merits. we call it their believability. here's an example of a vote that we took where the majority of people felt one way ... but when we weighed the views based on people's merits, the answer was completely different. this process allows us to make decisions not based on democracy, not based on autocracy, but based on algorithms that take people's believability into consideration.yup, we really do this. we do it because it eliminates what i believe to be one of the greatest tragedies of mankind, and that is people arrogantly, naïvely holding opinions in their minds that are wrong, and acting on them, and not putting them out there to stress test them. and that's a tragedy. and we do it because it elevates ourselves above our own opinions so that we start to see things through everybody's eyes, and we see things collectively. collective decision-making is so much better than individual decision-making if it's done well. it's been the secret sauce behind our success. it's why we've made more money for our clients than any other hedge fund in existence and made money 23 out of the last 26 years.so what's the problem with being radically truthful and radically transparent with each other? people say it's emotionally difficult. critics say it's a formula for a brutal work environment. neuroscientists tell me it has to do with how are brains are prewired. there's a part of our brain that would like to know our mistakes and like to look at our weaknesses so we could do better. i'm told that that's the prefrontal cortex. and then there's a part of our brain which views all of this as attacks. i'm told that that's the amygdala. in other words, there are two you's inside you: there's an emotional you and there's an intellectual you, and often they're at odds, and often they work against you. it's been our experience that we can win this battle. we win it as a group. it takes about 18 months typically to find that most people prefer operating this way, with this radical transparency than to be operating in a more opaque environment. there's not politics, there's not the brutality of — you know, all of that hidden, behind-the-scenes — there's an idea meritocracy where people can speak up. and that's been great. it's given us more effective work, and it's given us more effective relationships. but it's not for everybody. we found something like 25 or 30 percent of the population it's just not for. and by the way, when i say radical transparency, i'm not saying transparency about everything. i mean, you don't have to tell somebody that their bald spot is growing or their baby's ugly. so, i'm just talking about — talking about the important things. so — so when you leave this room, i'd like you to observe yourself in conversations with others. imagine if you knew what they were really thinking, and imagine if you knew what they were really like ... and imagine if they knew what you were really thinking and what were really like. it would certainly clear things up a lot and make your operations together more effective. i think it will improve your relationships. now imagine that you can have algorithms that will help you gather all of that information and even help you make decisions in an idea-meritocratic way. this sort of radical transparency is coming at you and it is going to affect your life. and in my opinion, it's going to be wonderful. so i hope it is as wonderful for you as it is for me.thank you very much. <title = "Would you live in a floating city in the sky?">
<tags = "['TED en Español', 'art', 'creativity', 'design', 'environment', 'future', 'innovation', 'invention', 'pollution', 'solar energy', 'sustainability', 'technology', 'wind energy']">
<occupation = "Artist">
this is my favorite place on earth, salar de uyuni in bolivia. and when it's covered in a thin layer of water, it reflects the clouds. there are days when you feel as if you're floating among the clouds. but there are days when the horizon disappears; there's no longer a top or a bottom. you feel immersed in something bigger.it was there that one night i woke up from a dream, and i saw that the stars were also reflected on the water. and that wasn't a dream. it was as if you could walk among the stars. with every step i took, the stars reverberated under my feet. it was like i was floating in the universe among clouds of galaxies.but what's floating there today are not just clouds of galaxies but also clouds of plastic. these are the footprints we're leaving on the planet. they're signs of an era in which the behavior of some humans is making a global impact on our ecosystems. this era is called the anthropocene. there's also another type of toxic clouds that float in the air, like the ones that form from carbon dioxide emissions and from the burning of fossil fuels — oil, carbon, gas — clouds that, when we see them, pollute our dreams. i don't know about all of you, but i've always dreamed of floating among the clouds. maybe today we can imagine together other types of clouds, clouds we can live with.if you're wondering about that photo, i'll explain: it looks like a collage or photomontage — something weird. no; it's reality. but sometimes i ask myself: what is reality? according to alexander kluge: "human beings are not interested in reality. they can’t be; it’s part of the human essence. they have desires. these desires are totally opposed to any form of reality. they prefer to lie than to become divorced from their desires." but how can we learn to float among the clouds? as an artist, i thought we could start building a flying museum. you're probably wondering: with plastic bags?in 2007, with a community of people all over the world, we began to collect used plastic bags — not new ones. and we washed them, we cut them up, we glued them together, and we began to draw on them, creating a huge canvas. we made a collection of drawings, of personal stories and of friendships. and when you join them, bend them and fold them, it creates a space full of air. when the sun comes up from the horizon, the museum rises up to the sky. that's why we call it, "the aero-solar museum." and from this simple idea, we learned how to float in the air in a radically new way, without using any type of fuel. the difference in temperature between the interior and the exterior is what makes us rise up. that way, we don't use fossil fuels or helium or hydrogen; we don't use solar panels or batteries or motors. we discovered a way that's simple, clean and accessible to the whole world to lift ourselves up.i remember when i was at nasa in 2009 with 120 engineers. you guys know, too, when you go up in a plane, the control panels are gigantic. and what we're doing is really complex, and when i started coming in with the plastic bags, saying, "but we have a different way ..." people had a hard time understanding the concept. seeing the power of this idea, we started to initiate a new era; one that would leave behind the violence of the anthropocene and give way to a new era, which we call the "aerocene" — an era of ecological awareness, in which we learn to float together, live together in the air, and come to an ethical commitment with the atmosphere and with planet earth. that's why i've brought this backpack today. let's see ...ok. this is a balloon that we also refer to as a sculpture. and if it's sunny out tomorrow, we can go out and fly — though, no, the weather in vancouver isn't — it's not very ... very favorable.so, what other features does it have? it has sensors that, when it moves, make sort of drawings in the air. it also has other sensors. i always think that first you have to feel it, and then you can measure it; you need to hear the sounds of the atmosphere, of the climate, of the hot air, in order to then measure the ozone, the carbon dioxide. we're developing these sensors together with different communities all over the world in order to reconnect with the climate, the temperature and the environment, because there are other species in the air; in these excursions towards the atmosphere, we're not alone. the air is full of clouds of life. we live at the bottom of an ocean of air.and this same sculpture, this exact one in my hands, flew 375 miles — 12 hours — from germany to poland, on a fuel-free trip. but it wasn't free from crossing borders. the trip was much more complicated than what we imagined; air space is as regulated and militarized as land space. to fly using the winds, the heat of the sun and the radiant energy of the earth is complex and beautiful. but even more complex will be getting the permits to cross the air space of each of the different countries that we fly over using wind.at cop21, the paris climate conference, we presented these spherical sculptures that could transport us all over the world. but how can we fly using the wind to arrive at our destination? together with mit, we developed a program that predicts how we can navigate the wind highways. for example, if i had to return to berlin from vancouver, the first thing i would need to do is choose an altitude. at different altitudes, there are different directions and different speeds. the red line is tomorrow and the orange, the day after tomorrow. and there it goes. you can see, the best day to fly back to berlin — so now, traveling using only wind — is in six days. and we can get to 105 miles from the center of berlin without burning a single drop of fuel, being transported only by wind currents.so we thought that these trajectories that we drew with the wind could become signatures, declaring "independence from fossil fuels day." more and more of us are experiencing the air in a different way. you're all familiar with earth day. we think we should also celebrate air day: it's a pact that we make with the earth, an ethical commitment to the atmosphere. but let's keep thinking and dreaming.we've learned that the bigger the sculptures are, the more weight they can lift. remember, they rise up only with hot air that's been heated by the sun. using this approach, we can learn to build gardens in the air. could we one day live in a garden the size of the earth? could we live in an ecosystem floating among the clouds? answering these questions isn't just a technological challenge; it's a way to reexamine the freedom of movement between countries, and of overcoming the political, social, cultural and military restrictions of contemporary societies. because in the end, the air belongs to everybody and doesn't answer to any government. and like we said earlier, our imagination is the force that allows us to create these places.this is an installation i did at the metropolitan museum of art in new york. it asks the question: what might these transnational spaces be like? and once we inhabit those spaces, we need to learn how to move within them, to walk among the clouds, where every movement affects everyone else's movements; the body weight and proximity between people will cause the space to expand ... or contract. there we are, suspended 72 feet in the air. when two or more people get too close together, even those farthest away are affected — everyone falls to the same spot. these are fragile ecosystems. and it's between these spheres that we build nets that connect us. there are moments when we have to face the void, and fear can paralyze us. one of the most beautiful things about this exhibit is the sense of solidarity generated when we face these new "aero-graphs."finally, let me tell you one last story. on july 16, 1945, on the white sands of new mexico, an atomic bomb was detonated for the first time. as a result of this explosion, a cloud of radioactive particles disseminated all over the earth, marking the beginning of the anthropocene era. seventy years later, on november 8, 2015, in the same place, another event occurred. for the first time in history, we lifted a person into the air using only the sun, without burning any fossil fuels. as the sun rose up above the horizon, we rose up, too, silently, slowly, with no explosions. we felt as if gravity had been inverted; it wasn't pulling us toward the center of the earth, but toward the universe. if neil armstrong said, when he walked on the moon, "that's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind," perhaps what we ought to ask ourselves is: what steps do we need to take today?in the aerocene era, our steps are much smaller, but radically different; they're steps that began with a bag full of air and wishes, but that can carry us to independence from fossil fuels and the opportunity to celebrate air day; steps that won't leave footprints on other planets until we've learned to walk in the atmosphere of this one. the landscapes are tiny and the steps are tiny, but i hope we can take them together. and i'm sure that these steps will lead us much further than the moon, so we can learn to float with our feet on the ground.thank you. <title = "What it feels like to see Earth from space">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'art', 'climate change', 'environment', 'photography']">
<occupation = "Author">
it's christmas eve, 1968. the apollo 8 spacecraft has successfully completed its first three orbits around the moon. launched from cape canaveral three days before, this is the first time that humans have ever traveled beyond low earth orbit. on the vessel's fourth pass, the earth slowly comes into view and reveals itself above the moon's horizon. astronaut bill anders frantically asks his crewmates where their camera is, grabs the hasselblad, points it towards the window, presses the shutter, and takes one of the most important photographs of all time: "earthrise."when the crew was safely home a few days later, they were asked about the mission. anders famously replied, "we went to the moon, but we actually discovered earth."what did he and his fellow crewmates feel in this incredible moment? in a study released just this past year, a team of researchers at the university of pennsylvania examined the testimonies of hundreds of astronauts who had the opportunity to view the earth from space. their analysis uncovered three common feelings: first, a greater appreciation for earth's beauty; second, an increased sense of connection to all other living beings; and third, an unexpected, often overwhelming sense of emotion. the researchers believe that seeing the earth from a great distance provokes someone to develop new cognitive frameworks to understand what they are seeing. they believe these astronauts were forever changed by this new view, this new perspective, this new visual truth. this feeling is commonly referred to as the "overview effect."only 558 people have ever been to outer space. 558 people had the opportunity to gaze down in awe, to wonder at our planet floating in an infinite sea of darkness. but what if that number were bigger?three years ago, i set off on my own mission: to see if i could bring this feeling of overwhelming scale and beauty to many more people just by using one small computer in my small new york city apartment. it was then, in 2013, that i launched "daily overview." every day, i have used satellite imagery to create one expansive overhead view of our planet. more than 1,000 of these images have been created thus far, and more than 600,000 people tune in for this daily dose of perspectives. i create the imagery by curating photos from the massive archive of a satellite company called digital globe. they operate a constellation of five satellites, each roughly the size of an ambulance, that is constantly taking pictures of the earth as they orbit at 28,000 kilometers per hour.now, what does this mean? each of these satellites is equipped with a camera that has a focal length of 16 meters, so that's roughly 290 times greater than a dslr camera equipped with a standard 55 millimeter lens. so if were able to attach one of their satellites to the roof of this theater in oxford, we could take a picture of a football, clearly, on the pitch at the stadium in amsterdam. that's 450 kilometers away. that's incredibly powerful technology. and i decided at the beginning of this project that i would use that incredible technology to focus on the places where humans have impacted the planet.as a species, we dig and scrape the earth for resources, we produce energy, we raise animals and cultivate crops for food, we build cities, we move around, we create waste. and in the process of doing all of these things, we shape landscapes and seascapes and cityscapes with increasing control and impunity. so with that in mind, i would like to share a few of my overviews with you now.here we see cargo ships and oil tankers waiting outside the entry to the port of singapore. this facility is the second-busiest in the world by terms of total tonnage, accounting for one-fifth of the world's shipping containers and one half of the annual supply of crude oil.if you look closely at this overview, you'll see a lot of little specks. those are actually cows at a feedlot in summerfield, texas, in the united states. so once cows reach a particular weight, roughly 300 kilograms, they are moved here and placed on a specialized diet. over the next three to four months, the cows gain an additional 180 kilograms before they are shipped off to slaughter. you're also probably wondering about this glowing pool at the top there. that gets its color from a unique combination of manure, chemicals and a particular type of algae that grows in the stagnant water.this is the mount whaleback iron ore mine in the pilbara region of western australia, a beautiful yet scary scar on the face of the earth. of the world's mined iron ore, 98 percent is used to make steel and is therefore a major component in the construction of buildings, automobiles or appliances such as your dishwasher or refrigerator.this is a solar concentrator in seville, spain. so this facility contains 2,650 mirrors which are arrayed in concentric circles around an 140-meter-tall tower at its center. at the top of the tower, there is a capsule of molten salt that gets heated by the beams of light reflected upwards from the mirrors below. from there, the salt circulates to a storage tank underground, where it produces steam, which spins turbines and generates enough electricity to power 70,000 homes and offsets 30,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions every year.this overview shows deforestation in santa cruz, bolivia immediately adjacent to untouched tracts of rainforest. deforestation in the country has primarily been driven by the expansion of mechanized agriculture and cattle ranching, so as the country tries to meet the demand of its growing population and feed them, the sacrificial destruction of its rainforest has taken place to do so. it is estimated that the country lost 4.5 million acres of rainforest in one decade alone from 2000 until 2010.this is the eixample district in barcelona, spain. so the overview perspective can be incredibly helpful to help us understand how cities function and how we can devise smarter solutions for urban planning, and this will become only more relevant as it is expected that 4.9 billion people will live in cities around the world by the year 2030. this area of barcelona is characterized by its strict grid pattern, apartments with communal courtyards and these octagonal intersections which allow for more sunlight, better ventilation and additional parking at street level.and here we see that grid pattern but under much different circumstances. this is the dadaab refugee camp in northern kenya, the largest such facility of its kind in the world. to cope with the influx of refugees who are fleeing somalia, where there is famine and conflict, the un has built this area gridded out at left called the lfo extension to house more and more refugees who are arriving and occupying these white dots, which are actually tents which will slowly fill up the area over time.so if you have one of these overviews, you have a moment in time. if we have two overviews, however, we are able to tell stories about changes in time. i call that feature of the project "juxtapose," and we'll share a few examples of it with you now.so the tulip fields in netherlands bloom every year in april. so we take an image captured in march a few weeks before and contrast it to one taken a few weeks later. we're able to watch the flowers bloom in this magnificent cascade of color. it is estimated that the dutch produce 4.3 billion tulip bulbs every year.in 2015, two dams collapsed at an iron ore mine in southeastern brazil, causing one of the worst environmental disasters in the history of the country. it is estimated that 62 million cubic meters of waste were released when the dams broke, destroying numerous villages in the process, including bento rodrigues, seen here before ... and after the flood. ultimately, 19 people were killed in this disaster. half a million people did not have access to clean drinking water for an extended period of time, and the waste soon entered into the doce river, extended for 650 kilometers all the way into the sea, killing unknowable amounts of plant and animal life along the way.and lastly, here is a story related to the crisis in syria, a conflict which has claimed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions. so this patch of desert is seen in mafraq, jordan in 2011, the year the conflict started, and when we compare it to an image captured just this year in 2017, we see the construction of the zaatari refugee camp.so just as the astronauts of apollo 8 watched the earth rising above the lunar landscape for the first time, there is no way that you could have imagined what the places i just showed you look like from outer space. and while you may enjoy the aesthetics of an image, once you learn exactly what it is you're seeing, you may struggle with the fact that you still like it. and that's the tension i want to create with my work, because i believe it is that contemplation, that internal dialogue that will lead to greater interest in our planet and more awareness of what we're doing to it.i believe that viewing the earth from the overview perspective is more important now than ever before. through the incredible technology of these high-flying cameras, we can see, monitor and expose the unprecedented impact that we are having. and whether we are scientists or engineers or policymakers or investors or artists, if we can adopt a more expansive perspective, embrace the truth of what is going on and contemplate the long-term health of our planet, we will create a better and safer and smarter future for our one and only home.thank you. <title = "Who belongs in a city?">
<tags = "['Africa', 'activism', 'cities', 'government', 'poverty', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist">
cities are like siblings in a large polygamous family. each one has a unique personality and is headed in a distinct direction. but they all have somewhat shared origins. sometimes i think postcolonial cities are like the children of the two least-favorite wives, who are constantly being asked, "ah, why can't you be more like your sister?" the "why" of cities is largely the same, no matter where they are: an advantageous location that makes trade and administration possible; the potential for scalable opportunities for the skilled and unskilled alike; a popular willingness to be in constant flux and, of course, resilience. the "how" of cities, however, is a whole other story. how are they run? how do they grow? how do they decide who belongs and who doesn't?lagos is my home. you can always find the nigerians by following the noise and the dancing, right? like any major city, that place is a lot of things, many of which are highly contradictory. our public transportation doesn't quite work, so we have these privately owned bright yellow buses that regularly cause accidents. luxury car showrooms line badly maintained and often flooded roads. street evangelism is only slightly less ubiquitous than street harassment. sex workers sometimes have two degrees, a bank job and a prominent role in church. on any given day, there can be either a party or a burned body in the middle of a street.there is so much that is possible in lagos and so much that isn't, and very often the difference between possibility and impossibility is simply who you are, and if you're lucky enough, who you're connected to. belonging in lagos is a fluid concept determined by ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender, but most visibly and often most violently, class.before nigeria became a country, fisherpeople from the inland creeks started to come down the lagos lagoon and establish villages along the coast. about 60 years later, my grandfather, oludotun adekunle kukoyi, also arrived in lagos. like me, he was an alumnus of the university of ibadan, a young member of the educated elite in the independence era. over time, he built an illustrious career as a land surveyor, mapping out now-bustling neighborhoods when they were just waist-high wild grass. he died when i was nine. and by that time, my family, like the families of those fisherpeople, knew lagos as home.among the yoruba, we have a saying, "èkó gb’olè, ó gb’ọ̀lẹ," which can be translated to mean that lagos will welcome anyone. but that saying is becoming less and less true. many lagosians, including the descendants of those fisherpeople who arrived generations before my grandfather, are now being pushed out to make room for an emergent city that has been described as "the new dubai." you see, lagos inspires big dreams, even in its leaders, and successive governments have declared aspirations towards a megacity where poverty does not exist. unfortunately, instead of focusing on the eradication of poverty as you would expect, the strategy of choice focuses on eliminating the poor.last october, the governor announced plans to demolish every single waterfront settlement in lagos. there are more than 40 of these indigenous communities all over the city, with over 300,000 people living in them. otodo gbame, a hundred-year-old fishing village with a population about three-quarters that of monaco and similar potential for beachfront luxury — was one of the first to be targeted.i first heard of otodo gbame after the demolition started. when i visited in november 2016, i met magdalene aiyefoju. she is a now-homeless woman whose surname means, "the world is blind." magdalene's son basil was one of over 20 people who were shot, drowned or presumed dead in that land grab. standing outside her shelter, i saw the two white-sand football fields where basil used to play. spread all around us were the ruins of schools, churches, a primary health center, shops, thousands of homes. young children enthusiastically helped to put up shelters, and about 5,000 of the residents, with nowhere else to go, simply stayed put. and then in april, state security personnel came back. this time, they cleared the community out completely, with beatings, bullets and fire. as i speak, there are construction crews preparing otodo gbame's beaches for anyone who can afford a multi-million-dollar view. the new development is called "periwinkle estate."forced evictions are incredibly violent and, of course, unconstitutional. and yet, they happen so often in so many of our cities, because the first thing we are taught to forget about poor people is that they are people. we believe that a home is a thing a person absolutely has a right to, unless the person is poor and the home is built a certain way in a certain neighborhood. but there is no single definition of the word "home." after all, what is a slum besides an organic response to acute housing deficits and income inequality? and what is a shanty if not a person making a home for themselves against all odds? slums are an imperfect housing solution, but they are also prime examples of the innovation, adaptability and resilience at the foundation — and the heart — of every functional city. you don't need to be the new dubai when you're already lagos. we have our own identity, our own rhythm, and as anyone who knows lagos can tell you, poor lagosians are very often the source of the city's character. without its poor, lagos would not be known for its music or its endless energy or even the fact that you can buy an ice cold drink or a puppy through your car window. the conditions that cause us to define certain neighborhoods as slums can be effectively improved, but not without recognizing the humanity and the agency of the people living in them. in lagos, where public goods are rarely publicly available, slum dwellers are often at the forefront of innovating solutions. after being disconnected from the grid for months because the power company couldn't figure out how to collect bills, one settlement designed a system that collectivized remittances and got everyone cheaper rates into the bargain. another settlement created a reform program that hires local bad boys as security. they know every trick and every hideout, so now troublemakers are more likely to get caught and reported to police and fewer of the youth end up engaging in criminal activity. yet another settlement recently completed a flood-safe, eco-friendly communal toilet system. models like these are being adopted across lagos.informal settlements are incorrectly named as the problem. in fact, the real problems are the factors that create them, like the entrenchment of poverty, social exclusion and state failures. when our governments frame slums as threats in order to justify violent land grabs or forced evictions, they're counting on those of us who live in formal housing to tacitly and ignorantly agree with them. rather, we must remind them that governments exist to serve not only those who build and live in luxury homes, but also those who clean and guard them. our — our realities may differ, but our rights don't.the lagos state government, like far too many on our continent, pays lip service to ideas of inclusion, while acting as though progress can only be achieved by the erasure, exploitation and even elimination of groups it considers expendable. people living with disabilities who hawk or beg on lagos streets are rounded up, extorted and detained. women in low-income neighborhoods are picked up and charged with prostitution, regardless of what they actually do for a living. gay citizens are scapegoated to distract from real political problems. but people, like cities, are resilient, and no amount of legislation or intimidation or violence can fully eliminate any of us. prostitutes, women and women who work as prostitutes still haven't gone extinct, despite centuries of active suppression. queer africans continue to exist, even though queerness is now criminalized in most parts of the continent. and i'm fairly certain that poor people don't generally tend to just disappear because they've been stripped of everything they have.we are all already here, and that answers the question of whether or not we belong.when those fisherpeople started to sail down the lagoon in search of new homes, it could not have occurred to them that the city that would rise up around them would one day insist that they do not belong in it. i like to believe that my grandfather, in mapping new frontiers for lagos, was trying to open it up to make room for other people to be welcomed by the city in the same way that he was. on my way here, my grandma called me to remind me how proud she was, how proud [my grandfather] and my mother would have been. i am their dreams come true. but there is no reason why their dreams — or mine, for that matter — are allowed to come true while those of others are turned to nightmares. and lest we forget: the minimum requirement for a dream is a safe place to lay your head.it is too late now for basil, but not for magdalene, not for the hundreds of thousands, the millions still under threat in lagos or any of our cities. the world does not have to remain blind to the suffering that is created when we deny people's humanity, or even to the incredible potential for growth that exists when we recognize and value all contributions.we must hold our governments and ourselves accountable for keeping our shared cities safe for everyone in them, because the only cities worth building — indeed, the only futures worth dreaming of — are those that include all of us, no matter who we are or how we make homes for ourselves.thank you. <title = "How our friendship survives our opposing politics">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'communication', 'friendship', 'politics', 'society']">
<occupation = "Marketing leader">
caitlin quattromani: the election of 2016 felt different. political conversations with our family and friends uncovered a level of polarization that many of us had not previously experienced. people who we always thought were reasonable and intelligent seemed like strangers. we said to ourselves, "how could you think that? i thought you were smart."lauran arledge: caitlin and i met in the summer of 2011, and we bonded around being working moms and trying to keep our very energetic boys busy. and we soon found out we had almost everything in common. from our love of colorado to our love of sushi, there wasn't much we didn't agree on. we also discovered that we share a deep love of this country and feel a responsibility to be politically active. but no one's perfect — and i soon found out two disappointing things about caitlin. first, she hates camping.cq: i think camping is the worst.la: so there would not be any joint camping trips in our future. the second thing is that she's politically active all right — as a conservative.cq: i may hate camping, but i love politics. i listen to conservative talk radio just about every day, and i've volunteered for a few different conservative political campaigns.la: and i'd say i'm a little to the left, like all the way to the left. i've always been interested in politics. i was a political science major, and i worked as a community organizer and on a congressional campaign.cq: so as lauran and i were getting to know each other, it was right in the middle of that 2012 presidential campaign, and most of our early political conversations were really just based in jokes and pranks. so as an example, i would change lauran's computer screen saver to a picture of mitt romney, or she would put an obama campaign magnet on the back of my car. la: car, not minivan.cq: but over time, those conversations grew more serious and really became a core of our friendship. and somewhere along the line, we decided we didn't want to have any topic be off limits for discussion, even if those topics pushed us way outside of our friendship comfort zone.la: and so to most of us, political conversations are a zero-sum game. there's a winner and there's a loser. we go for the attack and we spot a weakness in someone's argument. and here's the important part: we tend to take every comment or opinion that's expressed as a personal affront to our own values and beliefs. but what if changed the way we think about these conversations? what if, in these heated moments, we chose dialogue over debate? when we engage in dialogue, we flip the script. we replace our ego and our desire to win with curiosity, empathy and a desire to learn. instead of coming from a place of judgment, we are genuinely interested in the other person's experiences, their values and their concerns.cq: you make it sound so simple, lauran. but getting to that place of true dialogue is hard, especially when we're talking about politics. it is so easy to get emotionally fired up about issues that we're passionate about, and we can let our ego get in the way of truly hearing the other person's perspective. and in this crazy political climate we're in right now, unfortunately, we're seeing an extreme result of those heated political conversations, to the point where people are willing to walk away from their relationships. in fact, rasmussen released a poll earlier this year that said 40 percent of people reported that the 2016 election negatively impacted a personal relationship, and the journal of cognitive neuroscience tells us that people tend to feel their way to their beliefs rather than using reasoning, and that when reason and emotion collide, it's emotion that invariably wins. so no wonder it's hard to talk about these issues.la: and look, we're just two regular friends who happen to think very differently about politics and the role that government should play in our lives. and i know we were all taught not to talk about politics because it's not polite, but we need to be able to talk about it, because it's important to us and it's a part of who we are.cq: we have chosen to avoid political debate and instead engage in dialogue in order to maintain what we fondly call our bipartisan friendship. la: and this election and all of the craziness that has followed has given us several opportunities to practice this skill. let's start with january and the women's march. at this point, you can probably guess which one of us participated. cq: oh, the women's march. i was annoyed and irritated that entire day, really because of two things. number one, the name "women's march." as a conservative woman, the march's platform of issues didn't represent me, and that's ok, but hearing it talked about as this demonstration of sisterhood and solidarity for all women didn't ring true for me. the other piece was the timing of the event, the fact that it was the day after the presidential inauguration. it felt like we weren't even giving the new administration to actually do anything, good or bad, before people felt the need to demonstrate against it.la: and under normal circumstances, i would agree with caitlin. i think an administration does deserve the benefit of the doubt. but in this case, i was marching to show my concern that a man with such a poor track record with women and other groups had been elected as president. i had to be part of the collective voice that wanted to send a clear message to the new president that we did not accept or condone his behavior or rhetoric during the election.cq: so i'm already feeling kind of aggravated, and then i see this facebook from lauran pop up in my social media feed. seeing lauran's sons at the march and holding signs took it to a new level for me, and not in a good way, because i know these boys, i love these boys, and i didn't feel they were old enough to understand what the march stood for. i didn't understand why lauran would choose to have them participate in that way, and i assumed it wasn't a choice that the boys made for themselves. but i also know lauran. you're an incredible mom who would never exploit your boys in any way, so i had to stop and check myself. i had a decision to make. i could take the easy way out and just choose not to say anything to her, and instead just kind of simmer in my frustration, or i could ask her to learn more about her motivations.la: and i shared with caitlin that we actually started talking about the march weeks before we participated. and my boys were curious as to why the event was being organized, and this led to some very interesting family conversations. we talked about how in this country, we have the right and the privilege to demonstrate against something we don't agree with, and my husband shared with them why he thought it was so important that men joined the women's march. but the most significant reason we marched as a family is that it was a way for us to honor my parents' legacy. they spent their careers working to defend the rights of some of our most vulnerable citizens, and they passed these values down to me and my brother, and we want to do the same with our sons.cq: after talking to lauran, i really understood not only why she felt it was so important to march, but why she had her boys with her. and frankly, my assumptions were wrong. it was the boys who wanted to march after they talked about the issues as a family.but what's most important about this example is to think about the alternative. had lauran and i not talked about it, i would have been annoyed with her, and it could have resulted in an undercurrent of disrespect in our friendship. but by asking lauran questions, it allowed us to use dialogue to get to a place of true understanding. now, to be clear, our conversation didn't really change my mind about how i felt about the march, but it absolutely changed my thinking around why she brought her boys with her. and for both of us, that dialogue allowed us to understand each other's perspective about the women's march even though we disagreed.la: the second topic that challenged our ability to engage in dialogue was around my need to understand how caitlin could vote for trump. caitlin is a successful professional woman who is deeply caring and compassionate, and the caitlin i know would never excuse any man from talking about women the way that trump did during the campaign. it was hard for me to reconcile these two things in my mind. how could you overlook the things that were said?cq: so i'm guessing i may not be the only one here that thought we didn't have the best choices for the presidential election last year. the republican candidate who i did support didn't make it out of the primary, so when it came time to vote, i had a decision to make. and you're right, there were some terrible things that came out during the trump campaign, so much so that i almost decided to just abstain rather than voting for president, something i had never even considered doing before. but ultimately, i did vote for donald trump, and for me it was really a vote for party over person, especially recognizing how important that presidential pick is on influencing our judicial branch. but i shared with lauran it was a decision i really wrestled with, and not one that i made lightly.la: and so after our conversation, i was struck by a few things. first, i had fallen victim to my own confirmation bias. because of my strong feelings about trump, i had given all trump voters the same attributes, and none of them forgiving. but knowing caitlin, i started to ask questions. what were trump voters really concerned about? under all the divisive language, what was really going on? what could we learn about ourselves and our country from this unlikely event? i also learned that we shared a deep disappointment in this election, and that we have growing concerns about our two-party political system.but the most important thing about this conversation is that it happened at all. without an open and honest dialogue between the two of us, this election would have been the elephant in the room for the next four years, pun intended. cq: so, look — so, look — we know it takes work to get past the difficult, frustrating and sometimes emotional parts of having discussions about issues like the women's march or why your friend may have voted for a candidate that you can't stand. but we need to have these conversations. our ability to move past political debate into true dialogue is a critical skill we should all be focused on right now, especially with the people that we care about the most.la: and it's not just as adults that we need to bottle this behavior. it's critical that we do it for our children as well. my sons were inundated with this election. we were listening to the news in the morning, and they were having conversations with their friends at school. i was concerned that they were picking up so much polarizing misinformation, and they were growing really fearful of a trump presidency. then one day, after the election, i was taking my sons to school, and my younger son, completely out of the blue, said, "mom, we don't know anybody who voted for trump, right?" and i paused and i took a deep breath. "yes, we do." "the quattromanis." and his response was so great. he kind of got this confused look on his face, and he said ... "but we love them." and i answered, "yes, we do." and then he said, "why would they vote for him?" and i remember stopping and thinking that it was really important how i answered this question. somehow, i had to honor our own family values and show respect for our friends. so i finally said, "they think that's the right direction for this country." and before i had even gotten the whole sentence out, he had moved on to the soccer game he was going to play at recess.cq: so life with boys. so what lauran and i have discovered through our bipartisan friendship is the possibility that lives in dialogue. we have chosen to be genuinely curious about each other's ideas and perspectives and to be willing to listen to one another even when we disagree. and by putting aside our ego and our preconceived ideas, we've opened ourselves up to limitless learning. and perhaps most importantly for our relationship, we have made the commitment to each other that our friendship is way more important than either of us being right or winning a conversation about politics. so today, we're asking you to have a conversation. talk to someone outside of your political party who might challenge your thinking. make an effort to engage with someone with whom you might typically avoid a political conversation. but remember, the goal isn't to win, the goal is to listen and to understand and to be open to learning something new.la: so let's go back to election night. as the polls were closing and it became clear that trump was going to be our new president, i was devastated. i was sad, i was confused, and i'll be honest — i was angry. and then just before midnight, i received this text message from caitlin.[i know this is a hard night for you guys. we are thinking of you. love you.]and where there so easy could have been weeks or months of awkwardness and unspoken hostility, there was this — an offering of empathy rooted in friendship. and i knew, in that moment, that we would make it through this.cq: so we must find a way to engage in meaningful conversations that are going to move us forward as a nation, and we can no longer wait for our elected officials to elevate our national discourse.la: the challenges ahead are going to require all of us to participate in a deeper and more meaningful way ... and it starts with each one of us building connection through dialogue — in our relationships, our communities and as a country.thank you. <title = "There's more to life than being happy">
<tags = "['happiness', 'humanity', 'personal growth', 'psychology', 'relationships', 'storytelling']">
<occupation = "Author">
i used to think the whole purpose of life was pursuing happiness. everyone said the path to happiness was success, so i searched for that ideal job, that perfect boyfriend, that beautiful apartment. but instead of ever feeling fulfilled, i felt anxious and adrift. and i wasn't alone; my friends — they struggled with this, too.eventually, i decided to go to graduate school for positive psychology to learn what truly makes people happy. but what i discovered there changed my life. the data showed that chasing happiness can make people unhappy. and what really struck me was this: the suicide rate has been rising around the world, and it recently reached a 30-year high in america. even though life is getting objectively better by nearly every conceivable standard, more people feel hopeless, depressed and alone. there's an emptiness gnawing away at people, and you don't have to be clinically depressed to feel it. sooner or later, i think we all wonder: is this all there is? and according to the research, what predicts this despair is not a lack of happiness. it's a lack of something else, a lack of having meaning in life.but that raised some questions for me. is there more to life than being happy? and what's the difference between being happy and having meaning in life? many psychologists define happiness as a state of comfort and ease, feeling good in the moment. meaning, though, is deeper. the renowned psychologist martin seligman says meaning comes from belonging to and serving something beyond yourself and from developing the best within you. our culture is obsessed with happiness, but i came to see that seeking meaning is the more fulfilling path. and the studies show that people who have meaning in life, they're more resilient, they do better in school and at work, and they even live longer.so this all made me wonder: how can we each live more meaningfully? to find out, i spent five years interviewing hundreds of people and reading through thousands of pages of psychology, neuroscience and philosophy. bringing it all together, i found that there are what i call four pillars of a meaningful life. and we can each create lives of meaning by building some or all of these pillars in our lives.the first pillar is belonging. belonging comes from being in relationships where you're valued for who you are intrinsically and where you value others as well. but some groups and relationships deliver a cheap form of belonging; you're valued for what you believe, for who you hate, not for who you are. true belonging springs from love. it lives in moments among individuals, and it's a choice — you can choose to cultivate belonging with others.here's an example. each morning, my friend jonathan buys a newspaper from the same street vendor in new york. they don't just conduct a transaction, though. they take a moment to slow down, talk, and treat each other like humans. but one time, jonathan didn't have the right change, and the vendor said, "don't worry about it." but jonathan insisted on paying, so he went to the store and bought something he didn't need to make change. but when he gave the money to the vendor, the vendor drew back. he was hurt. he was trying to do something kind, but jonathan had rejected him.i think we all reject people in small ways like this without realizing it. i do. i'll walk by someone i know and barely acknowledge them. i'll check my phone when someone's talking to me. these acts devalue others. they make them feel invisible and unworthy. but when you lead with love, you create a bond that lifts each of you up.for many people, belonging is the most essential source of meaning, those bonds to family and friends. for others, the key to meaning is the second pillar: purpose. now, finding your purpose is not the same thing as finding that job that makes you happy. purpose is less about what you want than about what you give. a hospital custodian told me her purpose is healing sick people. many parents tell me, "my purpose is raising my children." the key to purpose is using your strengths to serve others. of course, for many of us, that happens through work. that's how we contribute and feel needed. but that also means that issues like disengagement at work, unemployment, low labor force participation — these aren't just economic problems, they're existential ones, too. without something worthwhile to do, people flounder. of course, you don't have to find purpose at work, but purpose gives you something to live for, some "why" that drives you forward.the third pillar of meaning is also about stepping beyond yourself, but in a completely different way: transcendence. transcendent states are those rare moments when you're lifted above the hustle and bustle of daily life, your sense of self fades away, and you feel connected to a higher reality. for one person i talked to, transcendence came from seeing art. for another person, it was at church. for me, i'm a writer, and it happens through writing. sometimes i get so in the zone that i lose all sense of time and place. these transcendent experiences can change you. one study had students look up at 200-feet-tall eucalyptus trees for one minute. but afterwards they felt less self-centered, and they even behaved more generously when given the chance to help someone.belonging, purpose, transcendence. now, the fourth pillar of meaning, i've found, tends to surprise people. the fourth pillar is storytelling, the story you tell yourself about yourself. creating a narrative from the events of your life brings clarity. it helps you understand how you became you. but we don't always realize that we're the authors of our stories and can change the way we're telling them. your life isn't just a list of events. you can edit, interpret and retell your story, even as you're constrained by the facts.i met a young man named emeka, who'd been paralyzed playing football. after his injury, emeka told himself, "my life was great playing football, but now look at me." people who tell stories like this — "my life was good. now it's bad." — tend to be more anxious and depressed. and that was emeka for a while. but with time, he started to weave a different story. his new story was, "before my injury, my life was purposeless. i partied a lot and was a pretty selfish guy. but my injury made me realize i could be a better man." that edit to his story changed emeka's life. after telling the new story to himself, emeka started mentoring kids, and he discovered what his purpose was: serving others. the psychologist dan mcadams calls this a "redemptive story," where the bad is redeemed by the good. people leading meaningful lives, he's found, tend to tell stories about their lives defined by redemption, growth and love.but what makes people change their stories? some people get help from a therapist, but you can do it on your own, too, just by reflecting on your life thoughtfully, how your defining experiences shaped you, what you lost, what you gained. that's what emeka did. you won't change your story overnight; it could take years and be painful. after all, we've all suffered, and we all struggle. but embracing those painful memories can lead to new insights and wisdom, to finding that good that sustains you.belonging, purpose, transcendence, storytelling: those are the four pillars of meaning. when i was younger, i was lucky enough to be surrounded by all of the pillars. my parents ran a sufi meetinghouse from our home in montreal. sufism is a spiritual practice associated with the whirling dervishes and the poet rumi. twice a week, sufis would come to our home to meditate, drink persian tea, and share stories. their practice also involved serving all of creation through small acts of love, which meant being kind even when people wronged you. but it gave them a purpose: to rein in the ego.eventually, i left home for college and without the daily grounding of sufism in my life, i felt unmoored. and i started searching for those things that make life worth living. that's what set me on this journey. looking back, i now realize that the sufi house had a real culture of meaning. the pillars were part of the architecture, and the presence of the pillars helped us all live more deeply.of course, the same principle applies in other strong communities as well — good ones and bad ones. gangs, cults: these are cultures of meaning that use the pillars and give people something to live and die for. but that's exactly why we as a society must offer better alternatives. we need to build these pillars within our families and our institutions to help people become their best selves. but living a meaningful life takes work. it's an ongoing process. as each day goes by, we're constantly creating our lives, adding to our story. and sometimes we can get off track.whenever that happens to me, i remember a powerful experience i had with my father. several months after i graduated from college, my dad had a massive heart attack that should have killed him. he survived, and when i asked him what was going through his mind as he faced death, he said all he could think about was needing to live so he could be there for my brother and me, and this gave him the will to fight for life. when he went under anesthesia for emergency surgery, instead of counting backwards from 10, he repeated our names like a mantra. he wanted our names to be the last words he spoke on earth if he died.my dad is a carpenter and a sufi. it's a humble life, but a good life. lying there facing death, he had a reason to live: love. his sense of belonging within his family, his purpose as a dad, his transcendent meditation, repeating our names — these, he says, are the reasons why he survived. that's the story he tells himself.that's the power of meaning. happiness comes and goes. but when life is really good and when things are really bad, having meaning gives you something to hold on to.thank you. <title = "What really motivates people to be honest in business">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'corruption', 'economics', 'finance', 'motivation', 'society']">
<occupation = "Economist">
how many companies have you interacted with today?well, you got up in the morning, took a shower, washed your hair, used a hair dryer, ate breakfast — ate cereals, fruit, yogurt, whatever — had coffee — tea. you took public transport to come here, or maybe used your private car. you interacted with the company that you work for or that you own. you interacted with your clients, your customers, and so on and so forth. i'm pretty sure there are at least seven companies you've interacted with today.let me tell you a stunning statistic. one out of seven large, public corporations commit fraud every year. this is a us academic study that looks at us companies — i have no reason to believe that it's different in europe. this is a study that looks at both detected and undetected fraud using statistical methods. this is not petty fraud. these frauds cost the shareholders of these companies, and therefore society, on the order of 380 billion dollars per year.we can all think of some examples, right? the car industry's secrets aren't quite so secret anymore. fraud has become a feature, not a bug, of the financial services industry. that's not me who's claiming that, that's the president of the american finance association who stated that in his presidential address. that's a huge problem if you think about, especially, an economy like switzerland, which relies so much on the trust put into its financial industry.on the other hand, there are six out of seven companies who actually remain honest despite all temptations to start engaging in fraud. there are whistle-blowers like michael woodford, who blew the whistle on olympus. these whistle-blowers risk their careers, their friendships, to bring out the truth about their companies. there are journalists like anna politkovskaya who risk even their lives to report human rights violations. she got killed — every year, around 100 journalists get killed because of their conviction to bring out the truth.so in my talk today, i want to share with you some insights i've obtained and learned in the last 10 years of conducting research in this. i'm a researcher, a scientist working with economists, financial economists, ethicists, neuroscientists, lawyers and others trying to understand what makes humans tick, and how can we address this issue of fraud in corporations and therefore contribute to the improvement of the world.i want to start by sharing with you two very distinct visions of how people behave. first, meet adam smith, founding father of modern economics. his basic idea was that if everybody behaves in their own self-interests, that's good for everybody in the end. self-interest isn't a narrowly defined concept just for your immediate utility. it has a long-run implication. let's think about that. think about this dog here. that might be us. there's this temptation — i apologize to all vegetarians, but — dogs do like the bratwurst. now, the straight-up, self-interested move here is to go for that. so my friend adam here might jump up, get the sausage and thereby ruin all this beautiful tableware. but that's not what adam smith meant. he didn't mean disregard all consequences — to the contrary. he would have thought, well, there may be negative consequences, for example, the owner might be angry with the dog and the dog, anticipating that, might not behave in this way. that might be us, weighing the benefits and costs of our actions.how does that play out? well, many of you, i'm sure, have in your companies, especially if it's a large company, a code of conduct. and then if you behave according to that code of conduct, that improves your chances of getting a bonus payment. and on the other hand, if you disregard it, then there are higher chances of not getting your bonus or its being diminished. in other words, this is a very economic motivation of trying to get people to be more honest, or more aligned with the corporation's principles.similarly, reputation is a very powerful economic force, right? we try to build a reputation, maybe for being honest, because then people trust us more in the future. right? adam smith talked about the baker who's not producing good bread out of his benevolence for those people who consume the bread, but because he wants to sell more future bread. in my research, we find, for example, at the university of zurich, that swiss banks who get caught up in media, and in the context, for example, of tax evasion, of tax fraud, have bad media coverage. they lose net new money in the future and therefore make lower profits. that's a very powerful reputational force. benefits and costs.here's another viewpoint of the world. meet immanuel kant, 18th-century german philosopher superstar. he developed this notion that independent of the consequences, some actions are just right and some are just wrong. it's just wrong to lie, for example. so, meet my friend immanuel here. he knows that the sausage is very tasty, but he's going to turn away because he's a good dog. he knows it's wrong to jump up and risk ruining all this beautiful tableware. if you believe that people are motivated like that, then all the stuff about incentives, all the stuff about code of conduct and bonus systems and so on, doesn't make a whole lot of sense. people are motivated by different values perhaps.so, what are people actually motivated by? these two gentlemen here have perfect hairdos, but they give us very different views of the world. what do we do with this? well, i'm an economist and we conduct so-called experiments to address this issue. we strip away facts which are confusing in reality. reality is so rich, there is so much going on, it's almost impossible to know what drives people's behavior really.so let's do a little experiment together. imagine the following situation. you're in a room alone, not like here. there's a five-franc coin like the one i'm holding up right now in front of you. here are your instructions: toss the coin four times, and then on a computer terminal in front of you, enter the number of times tails came up. this is the situation. here's the rub. for every time that you announce that you had a tails throw, you get paid five francs. so if you say i had two tails throws, you get paid 10 francs. if you say you had zero, you get paid zero francs. if you say, "i had four tails throws," then you get paid 20 francs. it's anonymous, nobody's watching what you're doing, and you get paid that money anonymously.i've got two questions for you. you know what's coming now, right? first, how would you behave in that situation? the second, look to your left and look to your right — and think about how the person sitting next to you might behave in that situation.we did this experiment for real. we did it at the manifesta art exhibition that took place here in zurich recently, not with students in the lab at the university but with the real population, like you guys. first, a quick reminder of stats. if i throw the coin four times and it's a fair coin, then the probability that it comes up four times tails is 6.25 percent. and i hope you can intuitively see that the probability that all four of them are tails is much lower than if two of them are tails, right?here are the specific numbers. here's what happened. people did this experiment for real. around 30 to 35 percent of people said, "well, i had four tails throws." that's extremely unlikely. but the really amazing thing here, perhaps to an economist, is there are around 65 percent of people who did not say i had four tails throws, even though in that situation, nobody's watching you, the only consequence that's in place is you get more money if you say four than less. you leave 20 francs on the table by announcing zero. i don't know whether the other people all were honest or whether they also said a little bit higher or lower than what they did because it's anonymous. we only observed the distribution. but what i can tell you — and here's another coin toss. there you go, it's tails. don't check, ok? what i can tell you is that not everybody behaved like adam smith would have predicted.so what does that leave us with? well, it seems people are motivated by certain intrinsic values and in our research, we look at this. we look at the idea that people have so-called protected values. a protected value isn't just any value. a protected value is a value where you're willing to pay a price to uphold that value. you're willing to pay a price to withstand the temptation to give in. and the consequence is you feel better if you earn money in a way that's consistent with your values.let me show you this again in the metaphor of our beloved dog here. if we succeed in getting the sausage without violating our values, then the sausage tastes better. that's what our research shows. if, on the other hand, we do so — if we get the sausage and in doing so we actually violate values, we value the sausage less. quantitatively, that's quite powerful. we can measure these protected values, for example, by a survey measure. simple, nine-item survey that's quite predictive in these experiments. if you think about the average of the population and then there's a distribution around it — people are different, we all are different. people who have a set of protected values that's one standard deviation above the average, they discount money they receive by lying by about 25 percent. that means a dollar received when lying is worth to them only 75 cents without any incentives you put in place for them to behave honestly. it's their intrinsic motivation.by the way, i'm not a moral authority. i'm not saying i have all these beautiful values, right? but i'm interested in how people behave and how we can leverage that richness in human nature to actually improve the workings of our organizations.so there are two very, very different visions here. on the one hand, you can appeal to benefits and costs and try to get people to behave according to them. on the other hand, you can select people who have the values and the desirable characteristics, of course — competencies that go in line with your organization.i do not yet know where these protected values really come from. is it nurture or is it nature? what i can tell you is that the distribution looks pretty similar for men and women. it looks pretty similar for those who had studied economics or those who had studied psychology. it looks even pretty similar around different age categories among adults. but i don't know yet how this develops over a lifetime. that will be the subject of future research.the idea i want to leave you with is it's all right to appeal to incentives. i'm an economist; i certainly believe in the fact that incentives work. but do think about selecting the right people rather than having people and then putting incentives in place. selecting the right people with the right values may go a long way to saving a lot of trouble and a lot of money in your organizations. in other words, it will pay off to put people first.thank you. <title = "A forgotten ancient grain that could help Africa prosper">
<tags = "['Africa', 'agriculture', 'farming', 'food', 'innovation']">
<occupation = "Chef">
i was born and raised in dakar, senegal, and through a combination of accidents and cosmic justice, became a chef in the us. when i first arrived in new york, i began working in these restaurants — different types of restaurants — from french bistro to italian, global ethnic to modern american. at the time, new york was already well-established as a food capital of the world. however ... with the exception of a few west african and ethiopian mom-and-pop eateries, there was no such thing as african cuisine in the entire city.early in my life, i was influenced by senegal's first president, léopold sédar senghor, nicknamed, "the poet president," who talked about a new humanism, a universal civilization, in which all cultures would come together around a communal table as equals, each bringing its own beautiful contribution to share. he called it "the rendezvous of giving and receiving." that concept resonated with me, and it has guided my career path.after years of working in restaurants, i yearned for my work to have a deeper impact that would go beyond the last meal i had served. i wanted to give back, both to new york — the city that allowed me the opportunity to follow my calling — but also to my origins and ancestors in senegal. i wanted to contribute to that universal civilization senghor had described. but i didn't know how to make a measurable impact as a cook and writer.while i was writing my first cookbook, i often traveled to different regions of senegal for research. during one of those trips, in the remote, southeast region of kédougou i rediscovered an ancient grain called fonio that had all but disappeared from the urban senegalese diet. it turns out that fonio had been cultivated for more than five thousand years and is probably the oldest cultivated cereal in africa. once a popular grain on much of the continent, fonio was grown all the way to ancient egypt, where archaeologists found grains inside pyramids' burial grounds. today it is mostly cultivated in the western part of the sahel region, from senegal to mali, burkina faso, togo, nigeria. the sahel region is that semiarid area south of the sahara desert that extends from the atlantic in the west to the red sea in the east. i became more interested in this grain that was deemed worth taking to the afterlife by early egyptians.as i continued my research, i found out that fonio was actually — wherever it was cultivated — there was always some myth, or some superstition connected to it. the dogon, another great culture in mali, called it "po," or, "the seed of the universe." in that ancient culture's mythology, the entire universe sprouted from a seed of fonio.aside from its purported mystical properties, fonio is a miracle grain in many aspects. it is nutritious, particularly rich in methionine and cysteine, two amino acids that are deficient in most other major grains: barley, rice or wheat to name a few. in addition, fonio cultivation is great for the environment. it tolerates poor soil and needs very little water, surviving where nothing else will grow.as a chef, what first struck me was its delicate taste and its versatility. similar to couscous, fonio has a delicious, nutty and earthy flavor. it can be turned into salad, served as noodles, used in baking or simply as a substitute for any other grains in your favorite recipes. i am happy to share some of my fonio sushi and sweet potato sushi with some of you right now.(audience) oh! and okra.(audience murmurs)in kédougou it is also nicknamed "ñamu buur," which means "food for royalty," and it's served for guests of honor.located at the border with guinea and mali, kédougou first strikes visitors with its stunning vistas and views of the fouta djallon mountains. sadly, it is also one of the poorest regions of senegal. because of desertification and lack of job prospects, much of kédougou's young population has left. they chose the deadly path of migration in search of "better" opportunities. often, they risk their lives trying to reach europe. some leave by crossing the sahara desert. others end up on inadequate wooden canoes in desperate attempts to reach spain. according to a recent "guardian" article, by 2020 more that 60 million people from sub-saharan africa are expected to migrate due to desertification. this is the biggest global wave of migration since the second world war, and it's only set to grow. so far this year, more that 2,100 migrants have lost their lives on their way to europe. this is the reality of kédougou and of much of the sahel today. scary future, scarce food and no opportunities to change their situation.if life in your village weren't so precarious, if there was a way to having enough food to get by, or having a paying job — if you and your sisters didn't have to spend 30 percent of their waking hours fetching water, if conditions were just a little more hospitable ... could the solution be right here in our soil? could bringing fonio to the rest of the world be the answer?ancient grains are getting more popular, and sales of gluten-free items are growing in the us — 16.4 percent since 2013, making it a 23.3-billion-dollar industry. how could fonio partake in this market share?there are many challenges in turning fonio into food. traditional processing is laborious and time-consuming, especially when compared to other grains. well, thankfully, technology has evolved. and there are now machines that can process fonio in a more efficient way. and as a matter of fact, a few years ago, sanoussi diakité, a senegalese engineer, won a rolex prize for his invention of the first mechanized fonio processor. today, such machines are making life much easier for producers around the whole sahel region.another challenge is the colonial mentality that what comes from the west is best. this tendency to look down on our own products and to see crops like fonio as simply "country peoples' food," therefore substandard, explains why even though we don't produce wheat in senegal traditionally, it is far easier to find baguettes or croissants in the streets of dakar than it is to find any fonio products. this same mindset popularized the overprocessed, leftover rice debris known as "broken rice," which was imported to senegal from indochina and introduced by the colonial french. soon, broken rice became a key ingredient in our national dish, thiéboudienne, replacing our own traditional, more nutritious african rice, oryza glaberrima. ironically, the same african rice despised at home was hailed abroad. indeed, during the atlantic slave trade, this rice became a major crop in the americas ... particularly in the carolinas where it was nicknamed, "carolina gold."but let's return to fonio. how can we turn its current status of "country-people food" into a world-class crop? last year, a business partner and i secured a commitment from whole foods market, the us's largest natural food store chain, to carry fonio. and we got a large american ingredient importer interested enough to send a team of executives to west africa with us to explore the supply chain's viability. we found ourselves observing manual operations in remote locations with few controls over quality. so we started focusing on processing issues. we drew up a vision with a beneficial and commercially sustainable supply chain for fonio, and we connected ourselves with organizations that can help us achieve it.walking backwards from the market, here is what it looks like. imagine that fonio is consumed all across the globe as other popular ancient grains. fonio touted on the levels of cereals, breads, nutrition bars, cookies, pastas, snacks — why not? it's easier to say than quinoa. to get there, fonio needs to be readily available at a consistent quality for commercial users, such as food manufacturers and restaurant chains. that's the part we're missing. to make fonio available at a consistent quality for commercial use, you need a commercial-scale fonio mill that adheres to international quality standards. currently, there is no such mill in the whole world, so in our vision, there is an african-owned and operated fonio mill that processes efficiently and in compliance with the requirements of multinational food companies. it is very difficult for the fonio producers today to sell and use fonio unless they devote a huge amount of time and energy in threshing, winnowing and husking it. in our vision, the mill will take on those tasks, allowing the producers to focus on farming rather than processing.there is untapped agricultural capacity in the sahel, and all it takes is changing market conditions to activate that capacity. by relieving fonio producers of manual operations, the mill will free up their time and remove the production bottleneck that limits their output. and there are other benefits as well in using sahel land for agriculture. more benefits, higher employment, climate change mitigation by reversing desertification and greater food security. nice vision, right? well, we are working towards getting it done. last month we introduced fonio to shoppers in new york city and online, in a package that makes it attractive and desirable and accessible. we are talking with operators and investors in west africa about building a fonio mill. and most importantly, we have teamed with an ngo called sos sahel to recruit, train and equip smallholders in the sahel to increase their fonio production.hunger levels are higher in sub-saharan africa than any other place in the world. the sahel population is set to grow from 135 million to 340 million people. however, in that drought- and famine-prone region, fonio grows freely. this tiny grain may provide big answers, reasserting its dogon name, "po," the seed of the universe, and taking us one step closer to the universal civilization.thank you. <title = "The real reason manufacturing jobs are disappearing">
<tags = "['business', 'capitalism', 'collaboration', 'economics', 'global issues', 'government', 'manufacturing', 'policy', 'politics', 'work']">
<occupation = "Border specialist">
when someone mentions cuba, what do you think about? classic, classic cars? perhaps good cigars? maybe you think of a famous baseball player. what about when somebody mentions north korea? you think about those missile tests, maybe their notorious leader or his good friend, dennis rodman. one thing that likely doesn't come to mind is a vision of a country, an open economy, whose citizens have access to a wide range of affordable consumer products.i'm not here to argue how these countries got to where they are today. i simply want to use them as an example of countries and citizens who have been affected, negatively affected, by a trade policy that restricts imports and protects local industries. recently we've heard a number of countries talk about restricting imports and protecting their local, domestic industries. now, this may sound fine in a sound bite, but what it really is is protectionism. we heard a lot about this during the 2016 presidential election. we heard about it during the brexit debates and most recently during the french elections. in fact, it's been a really important topic being talked about around the world, and many aspiring political leaders are running on platforms positioning protectionism as a good thing.now, i could see why they think protectionism is good, because sometimes it seems like trade is unfair. some have blamed trade for some of the problems we've been having here at home in the us. for years we've been hearing about the loss of high-paying us manufacturing jobs. many think that manufacturing is declining in the us because companies are moving their operations offshore to markets with lower-cost labor like china, mexico and vietnam. they also think trade agreements sometimes are unfair, like nafta and the trans-pacific partnership, because these trade agreements allow companies to reimport those cheaply produced goods back into the us and other countries from where the jobs were taken. so it kind of feels like the exporters win and the importers lose.now, the reality is output in the manufacturing sector in the us is actually growing, but we are losing jobs. we're losing lots of them. in fact, from 2000 to 2010, 5.7 million manufacturing jobs were lost. but they're not being lost for the reasons you might think. mike johnson in toledo, ohio didn't lose his jobs at the factory to miguel sanchez in monterrey, mexico. no. mike lost his job to a machine. 87 percent of lost manufacturing jobs have been eliminated because we've made improvements in our own productivity through automation. so that means that one out of 10 lost manufacturing jobs was due to offshoring. now, this is not just a us phenomenon. no. in fact, automation is spreading to every production line in every country around the world.but look, i get it: if you just lost your job and then you read in the newspaper that your old company just struck up a deal with china, it's easy to think you were just replaced in a one-for-one deal.when i hear stories like this, i think that what people picture is that trade happens between only two countries. manufacturers in one country produce products and they export them to consumers in other countries, and it feels like the manufacturing countries win and the importing countries lose.well, reality's a little bit different. i'm a supply chain professional, and i live and work in mexico. and i work in the middle of a highly connected network of manufacturers all collaborating from around the world to produce many of the products we use today. what i see from my front-row seat in mexico city actually looks more like this. and this is a more accurate depiction of what trade really looks like. i've had the pleasure of being able to see how many different products are manufactured, from golf clubs to laptop computers to internet servers, automobiles and even airplanes. and believe me, none of it happens in a straight line.let me give you an example. a few months ago, i was touring the manufacturing plant of a multinational aerospace company in querétaro, mexico, and the vp of logistics points out a completed tail assembly. it turns out the tail assemblies are assembled from panels that are manufactured in france, and they're assembled in mexico using components imported from the us. when those tail assemblies are done, they're exported via truck to canada to their primary assembly plant where they come together with thousands of other parts, like the wings and the seats and the little shades over the little windows, all coming in to become a part of a new airplane. think about it. these new airplanes, before they even take their first flight, they have more stamps in their passports than angelina jolie.now, this approach to processing goes on all around the world to manufacture many of the products we use every day, from skin cream to airplanes. when you go home tonight, take a look in your house. you might be surprised to find a label that looks like this one: "manufactured in the usa from us and foreign parts."economist michael porter described what's going on here best. many decades ago, he said that it's most beneficial for a country to focus on producing the products it can produce most efficiently and trading for the rest. so what he's talking about here is shared production, and efficiency is the name of the game. you've probably seen an example of this at home or at work.let's take a look at an example. think about how your house was built or your kitchen renovated. typically, there's a general contractor who is responsible for coordinating the efforts of all the different contractors: an architect to draw the plans, an earth-moving company to dig the foundation, a plumber, a carpenter and so on. so why doesn't the general contractor pick just one company to do all the work, like, say, the architect? because this is silly. the general contractor selects experts because it takes years to learn and master how to do each of the tasks it takes to build a house or renovate a kitchen, some of them requiring special training. think about it: would you want your architect to install your toilet? of course not.so let's apply this process to the corporate world. companies today focus on manufacturing what they produce best and most efficiently, and they trade for everything else. so this means they rely on a global, interconnected, interdependent network of manufacturers to produce these products. in fact, that network is so interconnected it's almost impossible to dismantle and produce products in just one country.let's take a look at the interconnected web we saw a few moments ago, and let's focus on just one strand between the us and mexico. the wilson institute says that shared production represents 40 percent of the half a trillion dollars in trade between the us and mexico. that's about 200 billion dollars, or the same as the gdp for portugal. so let's just imagine that the us decides to impose a 20 percent border tax on all imports from mexico. ok, fine. but do you think mexico is just going to stand by and let that happen? no. no way. so in retaliation, they impose a similar tax on all goods being imported from the us, and a little game of tit-for-tat ensues, and 20 percent — just imagine that 20 percent duties are added to every good, product, product component crossing back and forth across the border, and you could be looking at more than a 40 percent increase in duties, or 80 billion dollars. now, don't kid yourself, these costs are going to be passed along to you and to me. now, let's think about what impact that might have on some of the products, or the prices of the products, that we buy every day. so if a 30 percent increase in duties were actually passed along, we would be looking at some pretty important increases in prices. a lincoln mkz would go from 37,000 dollars to 48,000. and the price of a sharp 60-inch hdtv would go from 898 dollars to 1,167 dollars. and the price of a 16-ounce jar of cvs skin moisturizer would go from 13 dollars to 17 dollars. now, remember, this is only looking at one strand of the production chain between the us and mexico, so multiply this out across all of the strands. the impact could be considerable.now, just think about this: even if we were able to dismantle this network and produce products in just one country, which by the way is easier said than done, we would still only be saving or protecting one out of 10 lost manufacturing jobs. that's right, because remember, most of those jobs, 87 percent, were lost due to improvements in our own productivity. and unfortunately, those jobs, they're gone for good. so the real question is, does it make sense for us to drive up prices to the point where many of us can't afford the basic goods we use every day for the purpose of saving a job that might be eliminated in a couple of years anyway?the reality is that shared production allows us to manufacture higher quality products at lower costs. it's that simple. it allows us to get more out of the limited resources and expertise we have and at the same time benefit from lower prices. it's really important to remember that for shared production to be effective, it relies on efficient cross-border movement of raw materials, components and finished products.so remember this: the next time you're hearing somebody try to sell you on the idea that protectionism is a good deal, it's just not.thank you. <title = "The fascinating physics of everyday life">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'physics', 'play', 'science']">
<occupation = "Physicist">
as you heard, i'm a physicist. and i think the way we talk about physics needs a little modification. i am from just down the road here; i don't live here anymore. but coming from round here means that i have a northern nana, my mum's mom. and nana is very bright; she hasn't had much formal education, but she's sharp. and when i was a second-year undergraduate studying physics at cambridge, i remember spending an afternoon at nana's house in urmston studying quantum mechanics. and i had these folders open in front of me with this, you know, hieroglyphics — let's be honest. and nana came along, and she looked at this folder, and she said, "what's that?" i said, "it's quantum mechanics, nana." and i tried to explain something about what was on the page. it was to do with the nucleus and einstein a and b coefficients. and nana looked very impressed. and then she said, "oh. what can you do when you know that?" "don't know, ma'am." i think i said something about computers, because it was all i could think of at the time.but you can broaden that question out, because it's a very good question — "what can you do when you know that?" when "that" is physics? and i've come to realize that when we talk about physics in society and our sort of image of it, we don't include the things that we can do when we know that. our perception of what physics is needs a bit of a shift. not only does it need a bit of a shift, but sharing this different perspective matters for our society, and i'm not just saying that because i'm a physicist and i'm biased and i think we're the most important people in the world. honest.so, the image of physics — we've got an image problem, let's be honest — it hasn't moved on much from this. this is a very famous photograph that's from the solvay conference in 1927. this is when the great minds of physics were grappling with the nature of determinism and what it means only to have a probability that a particle might be somewhere, and whether any of it was real. and it was all very difficult. and you'll notice they're all very stern-looking men in suits. marie curie — i keep maybe saying, "marie antoinette," which would be a turn-up for the books — marie curie, third from the left on the bottom there, she was allowed in, but had to dress like everybody else. so, this is what physics is like — there's all these kinds of hieroglyphics, these are to do with waves and particles. that is an artist's impression of two black holes colliding, which makes it look worth watching, to be honest. i'm glad i didn't have to write the risk assessment for whatever was going on there. the point is: this is the image of physics, right? it's weird and difficult, done by slightly strange people dressed in a slightly strange way. it's inaccessible, it's somewhere else and fundamentally, why should i care?and the problem with that is that i'm a physicist, and i study this. this — this is my job, right? i study the interface between the atmosphere and the ocean. the atmosphere is massive, the ocean is massive, and the thin layer that joins them together is really important, because that's where things go from one huge reservoir to the other. you can see that the sea surface — that was me who took this video — the average height of those waves by the way, was 10 meters. so this is definitely physics happening here — there's lots of things — this is definitely physics. and yet it's not included in our cultural perception of physics, and that bothers me.so what is included in our cultural perception of physics? because i'm a physicist, there has to be a graph, right? that's allowed. we've got time along the bottom here, from very fast things there, to things that take a long time over here. small things at the bottom, big things up there. so, our current cultural image of physics looks like this. there's quantum mechanics down in that corner, it's very small, it's very weird, it happens very quickly, and it's a long way down in the general ... on the scale of anything that matters for everyday life. and then there's cosmology, which is up there; very large, very far away, also very weird. and if you go to some places like black holes in the beginning of the universe, we know that these are frontiers in physics, right? there's lots of work being done to discover new physics in these places.but the thing is, you will notice there's a very large gap in the middle. and in that gap, there are many things. there are planets and toasts and volcanoes and clouds and clarinets and bubbles and dolphins and all sorts of things that make up our everyday life. and these are also run by physics, you'd be surprised — there is physics in the middle, it's just that nobody talks about it. and the thing about all of these is that they all run on a relatively small number of physical laws, things like newton's laws of motion, thermodynamics, some rotational dynamics. the physics in the middle applies over a huge range, from very, very small things to very, very big things. you have to try very hard to get outside of this. and there is also a frontier in research physics here, it's just that nobody talks about it. this is the world of the complex. when these laws work together, they bring about the beautiful, messy, complex world we live in.fundamentally, this is the bit that really matters to me on an everyday basis. and this is the bit that we don't talk about. there's plenty of physics research going on here. but because it doesn't involve pointing at stars, people for some reason think it's not that. now, the cool thing about this is that there are so many things in this middle bit, all following the same physical laws, that we can see those laws at work almost all the time around us.i've got a little video here. so the game is, one of these eggs is raw and one of them has been boiled. i want you to tell me which one is which. which one's raw?(audience responds)the one on the left — yes! and even though you might not have tried that, you all knew. the reason for that is, you set them spinning, and when you stop the cooked egg, the one that's completely solid, you stop the entire egg. when you stop the other one, you only stop the shell; the liquid inside is still rotating because nothing's made it stop. and then it pushes the shell round again, so the egg starts to rotate again. this is brilliant, right? it's a demonstration of something in physics that we call the law of conservation of angular momentum, which basically says that if you set something spinning about a fixed axis, that it will keep spinning unless you do something to stop it. and that's really fundamental in how the universe works. and it's not just eggs that it applies to, although it's really useful if you're the sort of person — and apparently, these people do exist — who will boil eggs and then put them back in the fridge. who does that? don't admit to it — it's ok. we won't judge you. but it's also got much broader applicabilities.this is the hubble space telescope. the hubble ultra deep field, which is a very tiny part of the sky. hubble has been floating in free space for 25 years, not touching anything. and yet it can point to a tiny region of sky. for 11 and a half days, it did it in sections, accurately enough to take amazing images like this. so the question is: how does something that is not touching anything know where it is? the answer is that right in the middle of it, it has something that, to my great disappointment, isn't a raw egg, but basically does the same job. it's got gyroscopes which are spinning, and because of the law of conservation of angular momentum, they keep spinning with the same axis, indefinitely. hubble kind of rotates around them, and so it can orient itself. so the same little physical law we can play with in the kitchen and use, also explains what makes possible some of the most advanced technology of our time. so this is the fun bit of physics, that you learn these patterns and then you can apply them again and again and again. and it's really rewarding when you spot them in new places. this is the fun of physics.i have shown that egg video to an audience full of businesspeople once and they were all dressed up very smartly and trying to impress their bosses. and i was running out of time, so i showed the egg video and then said, "well, you can work it out, and ask me afterwards to check." then i left the stage. and i had, literally, middle-aged grown men tugging on my sleeve afterwards, saying, "is it this? is it this?" and when i said, "yes." they went, "yes!" the joy that you get from spotting these patterns doesn't go away when you're an adult.and that's really important, because physics is all about patterns, and a small number of patterns give you access to almost all of the physics in our everyday world. the thing that's best about this is it involves playing with toys. things like the egg shouldn't be dismissed as the mundane little things that we just give the kids to play with on a saturday afternoon to keep them quiet. this is the stuff that actually really matters, because this is the laws of the universe and it applies to eggs and toast falling butter-side down and all sorts of other things, just as much as it applies to modern technology and anything else that's going on in the world. so i think we should play with these patterns.basically, there are a small number of concepts that you can become familiar with using things in your kitchen, that are really useful for life in the outside world. if you want to learn about thermodynamics, a duck is a good place to start, for example, why their feet don't get cold. once you've got a bit of thermodynamics with the duck, you can also explain fridges. magnets that you can play with in your kitchen get you to wind turbines and modern energy generation. raisins in [fizzy] lemonade, which is always a good thing to play with. if you're at a boring party, fish some raisins out of the bar snacks, put them in some lemonade. it's got three consequences. first thing is, it's quite good to watch; try it. secondly, it sends the boring people away. thirdly, it brings the interesting people to you. you win on all fronts. and then there's spin and gas laws and viscosity. there's these little patterns, and they're right around us everywhere. and it's fundamentally democratic, right? everybody has access to the same physics; you don't need a big, posh lab.when i wrote the book, i had the chapter on spin. i had written a bit about toast falling butter-side down. i gave the chapter to a friend of mine who's not a scientist, for him to read and tell me what he thought, and he took the chapter away. he was working overseas. i got this text message back from him a couple of weeks later, and it said, "i'm at breakfast in a posh hotel in switzerland, and i really want to push toast off the table, because i don't believe what you wrote." and that was the good bit — he doesn't have to. he can push the toast off the table and try it for himself.and so there's two important things to know about science: the fundamental laws we've learned through experience and experimentation, work. the day we drop an apple and it goes up, then we'll have a debate about gravity. up to that point, we basically know how gravity works, and we can learn the framework. then there's the process of experimentation: having confidence in things, trying things out, critical thinking — how we move science forward — and you can learn both of those things by playing with toys in the everyday world.and it's really important, because there's all this talk about technology, we've heard talks about quantum computing and all these mysterious, far-off things. but fundamentally, we still live in bodies that are about this size, we still walk about, sit on chairs that are about this size, we still live in the physical world. and being familiar with these concepts means we're not helpless. and i think it's really important that we're not helpless, that society feels it can look at things, because this isn't about knowing all the answers. it's about having the framework so you can ask the right questions. and by playing with these fundamental little things in everyday life, we gain the confidence to ask the right questions.so, there's a bigger thing. in answer to nana's question about what can you do when you know that — because there's lots of stuff in the everyday world that you can do when you know that, especially if you've got eggs in the fridge — there's a much deeper answer. and so there's all the fun and the curiosity that you could have playing with toys. by the way — why should kids have all the fun, right? all of us can have fun playing with toys, and we shouldn't be embarrassed about it. you can blame me, it's fine.so when it comes to reasons for studying physics, for example, here is the best reason i can think of: i think that each of us has three life-support systems. we've got our own body, we've got a planet and we've got our civilization. each of those is an independent life-support system, keeping us alive in its own way. and they all run on the fundamental physical laws that you can learn in the kitchen with eggs and teacups and lemonade, and everything else you can play with. this is the reason, for example, why something like climate change is such a serious problem, because it's two of these life-support systems, our planet and our civilization, kind of butting up against each other; they're in conflict, and we need to negotiate that boundary.and the fundamental physical laws that we can learn that are the way the world around us works, are the tools at the basis of everything; they're the foundation. there's lots of things to know about in life, but knowing the foundations is going to get you a long way. and i think this, if you're not interested in having fun with physics or anything like that — strange, but apparently, these people exist — you surely are interested in keeping yourself alive and in how our life-support systems work. the framework for physics is remarkably constant; it's the same in lots and lots of things that we measure. it's not going to change anytime soon. they might discover some new quantum mechanics, but apples right here are still going to fall down.so, the question is — i get asked sometimes: how do you start? what's the place to start if you're interested in the physical world, in not being helpless, and in finding some toys to play with? here is my suggestion to you: the place to start is that moment — and adults do this — you're drifting along somewhere, and you spot something and your brain goes, "oh, that's weird." and then your consciousness goes, "you're an adult. keep going." and that's the point — hold that thought — that bit where your brain went, "oh, that's a bit odd," because there's something there to play with, and it's worth you playing with it, so that's the place to start.but if you don't have any of those little moments on your way home from this event, here are some things to start with. put raisins in [fizzy] lemonade; highly entertaining. watch a coffee spill dry. i know that sounds a little bit like watching paint dry, but it does do quite weird things; it's worth watching. i'm an acquired taste at dinner parties if there are teacups around. there are so many things you can do to play with teacups, it's brilliant. the most obvious one is to get a teacup, get a spoon, tap the teacup around the rim and listen, and you will hear something strange. and the other thing is, push your toast off the table because you can, and you'll learn stuff from it. and if you're feeling really ambitious, try and push it off in such a way that it doesn't fall butter-side down, which is possible.the point of all of this is that, first of all, we should all play with toys. we shouldn't be afraid to investigate the physical world for ourselves with the tools around us, because we all have access to them. it matters, because if we want to understand society, if we want to be good citizens, we need to understand the framework on which everything else must be based.playing with toys is great. understanding how to keep our life-support systems going is great. but fundamentally, the thing that we need to change in the way that we talk about physics, is we need to understand that physics isn't out there with weird people and strange hieroglyphics for somebody else in a posh lab. physics is right here; it's for us, and we can all play with it.thank you very much. <title = "Living sculptures that stand for history's truths">
<tags = "['Africa', 'activism', 'art', 'community', 'history', 'identity', 'performance art', 'race', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Artist">
i'd like for you to take a moment to imagine this with me. you're a little girl of five years old. sitting in front of a mirror, you ask yourself, "do i exist?" in this space, there is very little context, and so you move into a different one, one filled with people. surely, now you know you're not a figment of your own imagination. you breathe their air. you see them, so they must see you. and yet, you still can't help but wonder: do i only exist when people speak to me?pretty heavy thoughts for a child, right? but through various artworks that reflect upon our society, i came to understand how a young black girl can grow up feeling as if she's not seen, and perhaps she doesn't exist. you see, if young people don't have positive images of themselves and all that remains are negative stereotypes, this affects their self-image. but it also affects the way that the rest of society treats them.i discovered this having lived in cape town for about five years at the time. i felt a deep sense of dislocation and invisibility. i couldn't see myself represented. i couldn't see the women who've raised me, the ones who've influenced me, and the ones that have made south africa what it is today. i decided to do something about it.what do you think when you see this? if you were a black girl, how would it make you feel? walking down the street, what does the city you live in say to you? what symbols are present? which histories are celebrated? and on the other hand, which ones are omitted?you see, public spaces are hardly ever as neutral as they may seem. i discovered this when i made this performance in 2013 on heritage day. cape town is teeming with masculine architecture, monuments and statues, such as louis botha in that photograph. this overt presence of white colonial and afrikaner nationalist men not only echoes a social, gender and racial divide, but it also continues to affect the way that women — and the way, particularly, black women — see themselves in relation to dominant male figures in public spaces. for this reason, among others, i don't believe that we need statues. the preservation of history and the act of remembering can be achieved in more memorable and effective ways.as part of a year-long public holiday series, i use performance art as a form of social commentary to draw people's attention to certain issues, as well as addressing the absence of the black female body in memorialized public spaces, especially on public holidays. women's day was coming up. i looked at what the day means — the women's march to the union buildings in 1956, petitioning against the pass laws. juxtaposed with the hypocrisy of how women are treated, especially in public spaces today, i decided to do something about it.headline:[women in miniskirt attacked at taxi rank]how do i comment on such polar opposites? in the guise of my great-grandmother, i performed bare-breasted, close to the taxi rank in kwalanga. this space is also called freedom square, where women were a part of demonstrations against apartheid laws. i was not comfortable with women being seen as only victims in society. you might wonder how people reacted to this.(video) woman: (cheering)woman 2 (offscreen): yes!sethembile msezane: pretty cool, huh? so i realized that through my performances, i've been able to make regular people reflect upon their society, looking at the past as well as the current democracy.(video) man (offscreen): she's been there since three o'clock.man 2 (offscreen): just before three. about an hour still?man 1: yeah. it's just a really hot day.man 1: it's very interesting. it's very powerful. i think it's cool. i think a lot of people are quick to join a group that's a movement towards something, but not many people are ready to do something as an individual.man 2: so it's the individual versus the collective.man 1: yeah. so i think her pushing her own individual message in performance ... it's powerful. yeah, i think it's quite powerful that she's doing it on her own. i'd be interested to know why she's using hair extensions as wings, or whatever those things are meant to be. they are wings, yes?woman 3: with her standing there right now, i think it's just my interpretation that we are bringing the statue down and bringing up something that's supposed to represent african pride, i think. or something like that. something should stand while rhodes falls, i think that's what it's saying. yeah. yes. thank you.man 3: what is behind me represents the african culture. we can't have the colonialist law, so we need to remove all these colonial statues. we have have our own statues now, our african leaders — bhambatha, moshoeshoe, kwame nkrumah — all those who paid their lives for our liberation. we can't continue in the 21st century, and after 21 years of democracy, have the colonizers in our own country. they belong somewhere. maybe in a museum; not here. i mean learning institutions, places where young people, young minds are being shaped. so we cannot continue to have louis botha, rhodes, all these people, because they're representing the colonialism. sethembile msezane: on april 9, 2015, the cecil john rhodes statue was scheduled to be removed after a month of debates for and against its removal by various stakeholders. this caused a widespread interest in statues in south africa. opinions varied, but the media focused on problematizing the removal of statues. on that — well, that year, i had just begun my master's at the university of cape town. during the time of the debate of the statue, i had been having reoccurring dreams about a bird. and so i started conjuring her mentally, spiritually and through dress. on that day, i happened to be having a meeting with my supervisors, and they told me that the statue was going to fall on that day. i told them that i'd explain later, but we had to postpone the meeting because i was going to perform her as the statue came down.her name was chapungu. she was a soapstone bird that was looted from great zimbabwe in the late 1800s, and is still currently housed in cecil john rhodes's estate in cape town. on that day, i embodied her existence using my body, while standing in the blazing sun for nearly four hours. as the time came, the crane came alive. the people did, too — shouting, screaming, clenching their fists and taking pictures of the moment on their phones and cameras. chapungu's wings, along with the crane, rose to declare the fall of cecil john rhodes. euphoria filled the air as he became absent from his base, while she remained still, very present, half an hour after his removal.twenty-three years after apartheid, a new generation of radicals has arisen in south africa. the story of chapungu and rhodes in the same space and time asks important questions related to gender, power, self-representation, history making and repatriation. from then on, i realized that my spiritual beliefs and dreams texture my material reality. but for me, chapungu's story felt incomplete. this soapstone bird, a spiritual medium and messenger of god and the ancestors, needed me to continue her story. and so i dabbled in the dream space a little bit more, and this is how "falling" was born.[a film by sethembile msezane](video) (a capella singing)[falling] in the film, zimbabwe, south africa and germany share a common story about the soapstone birds that were looted from great zimbabwe. after zimbabwe gained its independence, all the birds except for one were returned to the monument. "falling" explores the mythological belief that there will be unrest until the final bird is returned.through my work, i have realized a lot about the world around me: how we move through spaces, who we choose to celebrate and who we remember. now i look in the mirror and not only see an image of myself, but of the women who have made me who i am today. i stand tall in my work, celebrating women's histories, in the hope that perhaps one day, no little black girl has to ever feel like she doesn't exist.thank you. <title = "How digital DNA could help you make better health choices">
<tags = "['DNA', 'Human body', 'biology', 'data', 'entrepreneur', 'genetics', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'illness', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'science']">
<occupation = "Genomics researcher">
today i'm here, actually, to pose you a question. what is life? it has been really puzzling me for more than 25 years, and will probably continue doing so for the next 25 years. this is the thesis i did when i was still in undergraduate school. while my colleagues still treated computers as big calculators, i started to teach computers to learn. i built digital lady beetles and tried to learn from real lady beetles, just to do one thing: search for food. and after very simple neural network — genetic algorithms and so on — look at the pattern. they're almost identical to real life. a very striking learning experience for a twenty-year-old.life is a learning program. when you look at all of this wonderful world, every species has its own learning program. the learning program is genome, and the code of that program is dna. the different genomes of each species represent different survival strategies. they represent hundreds of millions of years of evolution. the interaction between every species' ancestor and the environment.i was really fascinated about the world, about the dna, about, you know, the language of life, the program of learning. so i decided to co-found the institute to read them. i read many of them. we probably read more than half of the prior animal genomes in the world. i mean, up to date.we did learn a lot. we did sequence, also, one species many, many times ... human genome. we sequenced the first asian. i sequenced it myself many, many times, just to take advantage of that platform. look at all those repeating base pairs: atcg. you don't understand anything there. but look at that one base pair. those five letters, the aggaa. these five snps represent a very specific haplotype in the tibetan population around the gene called epas1. that gene has been proved — it's highly selective — it's the most significant signature of positive selection of tibetans for the higher altitude adaptation. you know what? these five snps were the result of integration of denisovans, or denisovan-like individuals into humans.this is the reason why we need to read those genomes. to understand history, to understand what kind of learning process the genome has been through for the millions of years. by reading a genome, it can give you a lot of information — tells you the bugs in the genome — i mean, birth defects, monogenetic disorders. reading a drop of blood could tell you why you got a fever, or it tells you which medicine and dosage needs to be used when you're sick, especially for cancer.a lot of things could be studied, but look at that: 30 years ago, we were still poor in china. only .67 percent of the chinese adult population had diabetes. look at now: 11 percent. genetics cannot change over 30 years — only one generation. it must be something different. diet? the environment? lifestyle? even identical twins could develop totally differently. it could be one becomes very obese, the other is not. one develops a cancer and the other does not. not mentioning living in a very stressed environment.i moved to shenzhen 10 years ago ... for some reason, people may know. if the gene's under stress, it behaves totally differently. life is a journey. a gene is just a starting point, not the end. you have this statistical risk of certain diseases when you are born. but every day you make different choices, and those choices will increase or decrease the risk of certain diseases. but do you know where you are on the curve? what's the past curve look like? what kind of decisions are you facing every day? and what kind of decision is the right one to make your own right curve over your life journey? what's that?the only thing you cannot change, you cannot reverse back, is time. probably not yet; maybe in the future. well, you cannot change the decision you've made, but can we do something there? can we actually try to run multiple options on me, and try to predict right on the consequence, and be able to make the right choice? after all, we are our choices.these lady beetles came to me afterwards. 25 years ago, i made the digital lady beetles to try to simulate real lady beetles. can i make a digital me ... to simulate me? i understand the neural network could become much more sophisticated and complicated there. can i make that one, and try to run multiple options on that digital me — to compute that? then i could live in different universes, in parallel, at the same time. then i would choose whatever is good for me.i probably have the most comprehensive digital me on the planet. i've spent a lot of dollars on me, on myself. and the digital me told me i have a genetic risk of gout by all of those things there. you need different technology to do that. you need the proteins, genes, you need metabolized antibodies, you need to screen all your body about the bacterias and viruses covering you, or in you. you need to have all the smart devices there — smart cars, smart house, smart tables, smart watch, smart phone to track all of your activities there. the environment is important — everything's important — and don't forget the smart toilet. it's such a waste, right? every day, so much invaluable information just has been flushed into the water. and you need them. you need to measure all of them. you need to be able to measure everything around you and compute them.and the digital me told me i have a genetic defect. i have a very high risk of gout. i don't feel anything now, i'm still healthy. but look at my uric acid level. it's double the normal range. and the digital me searched all the medicine books, and it tells me, "ok, you could drink burdock tea" — i cannot even pronounce it right — that is from old chinese wisdom. and i drank that tea for three months. my uric acid has now gone back to normal. i mean, it worked for me.all those thousands of years of wisdom worked for me. i was lucky. but i'm probably not lucky for you. all of this existing knowledge in the world cannot possibly be efficient enough or personalized enough for yourself. the only way to make that digital me work ... is to learn from yourself. you have to ask a lot of questions about yourself: "what if?" —i'm being jet-lagged now here. you don't probably see it, but i do. what if i eat less? when i took metformin, supposedly to live longer? what if i climb mt. everest? it's not that easy. or run a marathon? what if i drink a bottle of mao-tai, which is a chinese liquor, and i get really drunk? i was doing a video rehearsal last time with the folks here, when i was drunk, and i totally delivered a different speech. what if i work less, right? i have been less stressed, right? so that probably never happened to me, i was really stressed every day, but i hope i could be less stressed. these early studies told us, even with the same banana, we have totally different glucose-level reactions over different individuals.how about me? what is the right breakfast for me? i need to do two weeks of controlled experiments, of testing all kinds of different food ingredients on me, and check my body's reaction. and i don't know the precise nutrition for me, for myself.then i wanted to search all the chinese old wisdom about how i can live longer, and healthier. i did it. some of them are really unachievable. i did this once last october, by not eating for seven days. i did a fast for seven days with six partners of mine. look at those people. one smile. you know why he smiled? he cheated. he drank one cup of coffee at night, and we caught it from the data. we measured everything from the data.we were able to track them, and we could really see — for example, my immune system, just to give you a little hint there. my immune system changed dramatically over 24 hours there. and my antibody regulates my proteins for that dramatic change. and everybody was doing that. even if we're essentially totally different at the very beginning. and that probably will be an interesting treatment in the future for cancer and things like that.it becomes very, very interesting. but something you probably don't want to try, like drinking fecal water from a healthier individual, which will make you feel healthier. this is from old chinese wisdom. look at that, right? like 1,700 years ago, it's already there, in the book. but i still hate the smell. i want to find out the true way to do it, maybe find a combination of cocktails of bacterias and drink it, it probably will make me better. so i'm trying to do that.even though i'm trying this hard, it's so difficult to test out all possible conditions. it's not possible to do all kinds of experiments at all ... but we do have seven billion learning programs on this planet. seven billion. and every program is running in different conditions and doing different experiments. can we all measure them?seven years ago, i wrote an essay in "science" to celebrate the human genome's 10-year anniversary. i said, "sequence yourself, for one and for all." but now i'm going to say, "digitalize yourself for one and for all." when we make this digital me into a digital we, when we try to form an internet of life, when people can learn from each other, when people can learn from their experience, their data, when people can really form a digital me by themselves and we learn from it, the digital we will be totally different with a digital me.but it can only come from the digital me. and this is what i try to propose here. join me — become we, and everybody should build up their own digital me, because only by that will you learn more about you, about me, about us ... about the question i just posed at the very beginning: "what is life?"thank you. chris anderson: one quick question for you. i mean, the work is amazing. i suspect one question people have is, as we look forward to these amazing technical possibilities of personalized medicine, in the near-term it feels like they're only going to be affordable for a few people, right? it costs many dollars to do all the sequencing and so forth. is this going to lead to a kind of, you know, increasing inequality? or do you have this vision that the knowledge that you get from the pioneers can actually be pretty quickly disseminated to help a broader set of recipients?jun wang: well, good question. i'll tell you that seven years ago, when i co-founded bgi, and served as the ceo of the company there, the only goal there for me to do was to drive the sequencing cost down. it started from 100 million dollars per human genome. now, it's a couple hundred dollars for a human genome. the only reason to do it is to get more people to benefit from it. so for the digital me, it's the same thing. now, you probably need, you know, one million dollars to digitize a person. i think it has to be 100 dollars. it has to be free for many of those people that urgently need that.so this is our goal. and it seems that with all this merging of the technology, i'm thinking that in the very near future, let's say three to five years, it will come to reality. and this is the whole idea of why i founded icarbonx, my second company. it's really trying to get the cost down to a level where every individual could have the benefit.ca: all right, so the dream is not elite health services for few, it's to really try and actually make overall health care much more cost effective —jw: but we started from some early adopters, people believing ideas and so on, but eventually, it will become everybody's benefit.ca: well, jun, i think it's got to be true to say you're one of the most amazing scientific minds on the planet, and it's an honor to have you.jw: thank you. <title = "Why Africa must become a center of knowledge again">
<tags = "['Africa', 'agriculture', 'history', 'leadership', 'library', 'philosophy', 'resources', 'rivers', 'society', 'water']">
<occupation = "Historian, philosopher">
what stands between africa's current prostrate condition and a future of prosperity and abundance for its long-suffering populations? one word: knowledge. if africa is to become a continent that offers the best life for humans, it must become a knowledge society immediately. this is what i have called "africa's knowledge imperative."our universities must reduce emphasis on producing manpower for running our civil society, our economy and our political institutions. they should be dedicated mainly to knowledge production. what sense is there in producing civil engineers who are not supported by soil scientists and geologists, who make it their business to create knowledge about our soil and our rocks? what use is there in producing lawyers without juries who produce knowledge of the underlying philosophical foundations of the legal system? we must seek knowledge. we must approach the matter of knowledge with a maniacal commitment, without let or hindrance.though we must seek knowledge to solve problems we know of, we must also seek knowledge when there is no problem in view — especially when there is no problem in view. we must seek to know as much of what there is to know of all things, limited only by the insufficiency of our human nature, and not only when the need arises. those who do not seek knowledge when it is not needed will not have it when they must have it.the biggest crisis in africa today is the crisis of knowledge: how to produce it, how to manage it, and how to deploy it effectively. for instance, africa does not have a water crisis. it has a knowledge crisis regarding its water, where and what types it is, how it can be tapped and made available where and when needed to all and sundry. how does a continent that is home to some of the largest bodies of water in the world — the nile, the niger, the congo, the zambezi and the orange rivers — be said to have a water crisis, including in countries where those rivers are? and that is only surface water.while we wrongly dissipate our energies fighting the wrong crises, all those who invest in knowledge about us are busy figuring out how to pipe water from libya's aquifers to quench europe's thirst. such is our knowledge of our water resources that many of our countries have given up on making potable water a routine presence in the lives of africans, rich or poor, high and low, rural and urban. we eagerly accept what the merchants of misery and the global african studies safari professoriat and their aid-addled, autonomy-fearing african minions in government, universities and civil society tell us regarding how nature has been to stinting towards africa when it comes to the distribution of water resources in the world. we are content to run our cities and rural dwellings alike on boreholes. how does one run metropolises on boreholes and wells?does africa have a food crisis? again, the answer is no. it is yet another knowledge crisis regarding africa's agricultural resources, what and where they are, and how they can be best managed to make africans live more lives that are worth living. otherwise, how does one explain the fact that geography puts the source of the river nile in ethiopia, and its people cannot have water for their lives? and the same geography puts california in the desert, but it is a breadbasket.the difference, obviously, is not geography. it is knowledge. colorado's aquifers grow california's pistachios. why can't libya's aquifers grow sorghum in northern nigeria? why does nigeria not aspire to feed the world, not just itself? if africa's land is so poor, as we are often told, why are outsiders, from the united arab emirates all the way to south korea, buying up vast acreages of our land, to grow food, no less, to feed their people in lands that are truly more geographically stinting? the new landowners are not planning to import new topsoil to make their african acquisitions more arable. again, a singular instance of knowledge deficiency.in the 19th century, our predecessors, just years removed from the ravages of slavery and the slave trade, were exploring the niger and congo rivers with a view to turning africa's resources to the advantage of its people and to the rest of humanity, and their 20th-century successors were dreaming of harnessing the powers of the river congo to light up the whole continent. now only buccaneer capitalists from europe are scheming of doing the same, but for exports to europe and south africa. and they are even suggesting that congolese may not benefit from this scheme, because, according to them, congolese communities are too small to make providing them with electricity a viable concern.the solution? africa must become a knowledge society, a defining characteristic of the modern age. we neither are, nor are we on the path to becoming, a knowledge society.things have not always been this way when it comes to knowledge production and africa. in antiquity, the world went to africa for intellectual enrichment. there were celebrated centers of learning, attracting questers from all parts of the then-known world, seeking knowledge about that world. what happened then has implications for our present. for example, how roman africa managed the relationship between settlers and natives between the second and fourth centuries of our era might have something to teach us when it comes to confronting not-too-dissimilar problems at the present time. but how many classics departments do we have in our universities? because we do not invest in knowledge, people come to africa now not as a place of intellectual enrichment, but as a place where they sate their thirst for exotica.yet for the last half-millennium, africa has been hemorrhaging and exporting knowledge to the rest of the world. regardless of the popular description of it as a trade in bodies, the european trans-atlantic slave trade and slavery was one of the most radical and longest programs of african brains export in history. american slave owners may have pretended that africans were mere brutes, beasts of burden, almost as inert and dumb as other farm implements they classified them with in their ledgers. and that's what they did.the enslaved africans, on the other hand, knew their were embodiments of knowledge. they were smiths, they were poets, they were political counselors, they were princes and princesses, they were mythologists, they were herbologists, they were chefs. the list is endless. they, to take a single example, brought the knowledge of rice cultivation to the american south. they created some of the most original civilizational elements for which the united states is now celebrated. they deployed their knowledge, for the most part, without compensation.for the last half-millennium, beginning with the slave trade, africa has been exporting brains while simultaneously breaking the chains of knowledge translation on the continent itself, with dire consequences for the systems of knowledge production in africa. successive generations are cut off from the intellectual production of their predecessors. we keep producing for external markets while beggaring our own internal needs. at present, much of the best knowledge about africa is neither produced nor housed there, even when it is produced by africans. because we are dominated by immediate needs and relevant solutions when it comes to what we should know, we are happy to hand over to others the responsibility to produce knowledge, including knowledge about, of and for us, and to do so far away from us. we are ever eager to consume knowledge and have but a mere portion of it without any anxiety about ownership and location. african universities are now all too content to have e-connections with libraries elsewhere, having given up ambitions on building libraries to which the world would come for intellectual edification. control over who decides what should be stocked on our shelves and how access to collections should be determined are made to rest on our trust in our partners' good faith that they will not abandon us down the road.this must change. africa must become a place of knowledge again. knowledge production actually expands the economy. take archaeological digs, for instance, and their impact on tourism. our desires to unearth our antiquity, especially those remote times of which we have no written records, requires investment in archaeology and related disciplines, e.g., paleoanthropology. yet, although it is our past we seek to know, by sheer serendipity, archaeology may shed light on the global human experience and yield economic payoffs that were no part of the original reasons for digging.we must find a way to make knowledge and its production sexy and rewarding; rewarding, not in the crass sense of moneymaking but in terms of making it worthwhile to indulge in the pursuit of knowledge, support the existence of knowledge-producing groups and intellectuals, ensuring that the continent becomes the immediate locus of knowledge production, distribution and consumption, and that instead of having its depositories beyond africa's boundaries, people once more come from the rest of the world, even if in virtual space, to learn from us. all this we do as custodians on behalf of common humanity.creating a knowledge society in africa, for me, would be one way to celebrate and simultaneously enhance diversity by infinitely enriching it with material and additional artifacts — artifacts that we furnish by our strivings in the knowledge field.thank you very much. <title = "What we're missing in the debate about immigration">
<tags = "['TED Residency', 'United States', 'community', 'family', 'immigration', 'journalism', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Journalist">
so, ma was trying to explain something to me about grandma and when they grew up, but i couldn't pay attention to her because i was five years old, and i was petrified. i had just seen the green lady. now, about a week earlier, i'd watched that movie "godzilla," the one about that huge lizard-like beast storming a major city, and the thought of a green monster coming for me was stuck in my mind. and yet there i was, at the tip of lower manhattan with my mom, just staring at her: her horns, her muscles — all of it just frightened me. and i didn't know whether she was a monster or a hero. so i decided to consult the google of the day — "ma! ma!" my mother explained that the green lady is actually the statue of liberty and that she was waving immigrants in. now, the part of her explanation that really messed with my young head was the fact that, according to ma, long before us, the green lady was actually brown, brown like me, and that she changed colors over the years, much like america. now, the part that really is intriguing about this is that when she changed colors, she made me think about myself. it all made sense to me, because as a first-generation american, i was surrounded by immigrants. in fact, within my immediate social circle of the people who support me, who enrich my life, at least two are foreign-born. my life as a us citizen is in many ways shaped by newcomers, and chances are, so is yours.there are more than 40 million immigrants in the usa. according to census data, a quarter of the nation's children have at least one foreign-born parent. i know all these statistics because i study global migration patterns. i'm a journalist, and for the last few years, i've been documenting the lives of us citizens who've lost people to deportation. and the numbers are enormous. from 2008 to 2016, more than three million people were "ordered removed" — that's the technical term for being deported. there is an economic, a political, a psychological and an emotional cost to those deportations — the moments when these circles are broken.i once asked a us soldier, "why did you volunteer to fight this war?"and she told me, "because i'm proud to defend my country."but i pressed to know — "really, when you're on base, and you hear bombs exploding in the distance, and you see soldiers coming back who are gravely injured, in that moment, when you know you could be next, what does 'my country' mean?"she looked at me. "my country is my wife, my family, my friends, my soldiers." what she was telling me is that "my country" is a collection of these strong relationships; these social circles.when the social circles are weakened, a country itself is weaker. we're missing a crucial aspect in the debate about immigration policy. rather than focusing on individuals, we should focus on the circles around them, because these are the people who are left behind: the voters, the taxpayers, the ones who are suffering that loss. and it's not just the children of the deported who are impacted. you have brothers and sisters who are separated by borders. you have classmates, teachers, law enforcement officers, technologists, scientists, doctors, who are all scrambling to make sense of new realities when their social circles are broken. these are the real lives behind all these statistics that dominate discussions about immigration policy. but we don't often think about them. and i'm trying to change that.here's just one of the real-life stories that i've collected. and it still haunts me. i met ramon and his son in 2016, the same year both of them were being ordered out of the country. ramon was being deported to latin america, while his son, who was a sergeant in the us military, was being deployed. deported ... deployed. if you just look at ramon's case, it wouldn't be clear how deeply connected to the country he is. but consider his son: a us citizen defending a country that's banished his father. the social circle is what's key here.here's another example that illustrates those critical bonds. a group of citizens in philadelphia were concerned about their jobs, because the legal owner of the restaurant where they worked was an undocumented immigrant, and immigration officials had picked him up. they rallied behind him. an immigration lawyer argued he was too important to the local community to be deported. at the hearing, they even submitted restaurant reviews — restaurant reviews! in the end, a judge exercised what's called "judicial discretion" and allowed him to stay in the country, but only because they considered the social circle.there are 23 million noncitizens in the usa, according to verifiable federal data. and that doesn't include the undocumented, because numbers for that population are at best complex estimates. let's just work with what we have. that's 23 million social circles — about 100 million individuals whose lives could be impacted by deportation. and the stress of it all is trickling down through the population. a 2017 poll by ucla of la county residents found that 30 percent of citizens in la county are stressed about deportation, not because they themselves could be removed, but rather, because members of their social circle were at risk.i am not suggesting that no one should ever be deported; don't confuse me with that. but what i am saying is that we need to look at the bigger picture. if you are within the sound of my voice, i want you to close your eyes for a moment and examine your own social circle. who are your foreign-born? what would it feel like if the circle were broken?share your story. i'm building a global archive of first-person accounts and linking them with mapping technology, so that we can see exactly where these circles break, because this is not just an american issue. there are a quarter-billion migrants around the world; people living, loving and learning in countries where they were not born. and in my career, in my life, i've been one of them: in china, in africa, in europe. and each time i become one of these foreigners — one of these strange-looking guys in a new land — i can't help but think back to that day when i was in lower manhattan with my mom all those decades ago, when i was scared, and i had just spotted that green lady. and i guess the question that i keep on thinking about when i see her and all the younger replicas of her that are so obviously brown, and even the paintings that showcase her in the beginning as not quite green — when i look at all of that, the question that my research seeks to answer becomes, to me, the same one that confounded me all those years ago: is she a monster or a hero?thank you. <title = "The most Martian place on Earth">
<tags = "['Mars', 'South America', 'TED Fellows', 'astrobiology', 'biology', 'exploration', 'extraterrestrial life', 'science', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Astrobiologist">
this is a picture of a sunset on mars taken by nasa's curiosity rover in 2013. mars is a very cold planet, flooded with high levels of uv radiation and extremely dry. in fact, mars is considered to be too dry for life as we know it.i'm an astrobiologist. i try to understand the origin of life on earth and the possibilities of finding life elsewhere in the universe. people sometimes ask me, how can you be an astrobiologist if you don't have your own spaceship?well, what i do is that i study life in those environments on earth that most closely resemble other interesting places in the universe. all life on earth requires water, so in my case i focus on the intimate relationship between water and life in order to understand if we could find life in a planet as dry as mars. but since i do not have the 2.5 billion dollars to send my own robot to mars, i study the most martian place on earth, the atacama desert.located in northern chile, it is the oldest and driest desert on earth. to give you an idea of how dry it is, consider here in vancouver it rains over 1,000 millimeters of rain every year. in the atacama, there are places with no reported rains in the last 400 years.how do i know this? well, because i was born and raised in the atacama — so i had a unique advantage when i started studying this desert. so let me tell you guys a few fantastic examples he has found on how life has adapted to live with almost no water at all.one of my first findings was in the entrance of a cave facing the pacific ocean. in this place, we reported a new type of microalgae that grew only on top of the spiderwebs that covered the cave entrance. have you ever seen a spiderweb early in the morning? it's covered with dew, so this microalgae learned that in order to carry photosynthesis in the coast of the driest desert on earth, they could use the spiderwebs. so here they may access the water from the fogs that regularly cover these areas in the morning.in another cave, we found a different type of microalgae. this one is able to use ocean mist as a source of water, and strikingly lives in the very bottom of a cave, so it has adapted to live with less than 0.1 percent of the amount of light that regular plants need. these type of findings suggest to me that on mars, we may find even photosynthetic life inside caves. and by the way, that's me. now, for almost 15 years this region of yungay, discovered by nasa, was thought to be the driest place of this desert, but i knew that it was not. how? you already know the answer. because i was born and raised in this desert. so i remembered that i usually see fogs in yungay, so after setting sensors in a number of places, where i remember never seeing fogs or clouds, i reported four other sites much drier than yungay, with this one, maría elena south, being the truly driest place on earth, as dry as mars, and amazingly, just a 15-minute ride from the small mining town where i was born.now, in this search, we were trying to actually find the dry limit for life on earth, a place so dry that nothing was able to survive in it. but even here, well hidden underground, we found a number of different microorganisms, which suggested to me that similarly dry places, like mars, may be in inhabited. we even have some preliminary evidences that these microorganisms may still be active in the desiccated state, like walking mummies all around us, and that they may be using uv radiation as a source of energy. if confirmed, this would have a huge impact on our definition of life, on how we look for life elsewhere in the universe.due to its clear skies, by 2020, 60 percent of the biggest telescopes on earth will be located in the atacama, and while everyone else will be looking among the stars to answer the question, "are we alone?" i will be looking down to the ground searching for this same answer in my own backyard.thank you. <title = "What intelligent machines can learn from a school of fish">
<tags = "['AI', 'ants', 'fish', 'future', 'innovation', 'insects', 'intelligence', 'robots', 'science']">
<occupation = " Robotics engineer">
in my early days as a graduate student, i went on a snorkeling trip off the coast of the bahamas. i'd actually never swum in the ocean before, so it was a bit terrifying. what i remember the most is, as i put my head in the water and i was trying really hard to breathe through the snorkel, this huge group of striped yellow and black fish came straight at me ... and i just froze. and then, as if it had suddenly changed its mind, came towards me and then swerved to the right and went right around me. it was absolutely mesmerizing. maybe many of you have had this experience. of course, there's the color and the beauty of it, but there was also just the sheer oneness of it, as if it wasn't hundreds of fish but a single entity with a single collective mind that was making decisions. when i look back, i think that experience really ended up determining what i've worked on for most of my career.i'm a computer scientist, and the field that i work in is artificial intelligence. and a key theme in ai is being able to understand intelligence by creating our own computational systems that display intelligence the way we see it in nature. now, most popular views of ai, of course, come from science fiction and the movies, and i'm personally a big star wars fan. but that tends to be a very human-centric view of intelligence. when you think of a fish school, or when i think of a flock of starlings, that feels like a really different kind of intelligence. for starters, any one fish is just so tiny compared to the sheer size of the collective, so it seems that any one individual would have a really limited and myopic view of what's going on, and intelligence isn't really about the individual but somehow a property of the group itself.secondly, and the thing that i still find most remarkable, is that we know that there are no leaders supervising this fish school. instead, this incredible collective mind behavior is emerging purely from the interactions of one fish and another. somehow, there are these interactions or rules of engagement between neighboring fish that make it all work out.so the question for ai then becomes, what are those rules of engagement that lead to this kind of intelligence, and of course, can we create our own?and that's the primary thing that i work on with my team in my lab. we work on it through theory, looking at abstract rule systems and thinking about the mathematics behind it. we also do it through biology, working closely with experimentalists. but mostly, we do it through robotics, where we try to create our own collective systems that can do the kinds of things that we see in nature, or at least try to.one of our first robotic quests along this line was to create our very own colony of a thousand robots. so very simple robots, but they could be programmed to exhibit collective intelligence, and that's what we were able to do. so this is what a single robot looks like. it's quite small, about the size of a quarter, and you can program how it moves, but it can also wirelessly communicate with other robots, and it can measure distances from them. and so now we can start to program exactly an interaction, a rule of engagement between neighbors. and once we have this system, we can start to program many different kinds of rules of engagement that you would see in nature.so for example, spontaneous synchronization, how audiences are clapping and suddenly start all clapping together, the fireflies flashing together. we can program rules for pattern formation, how cells in a tissue determine what role they're going to take on and set the patterns of our bodies. we can program rules for migration, and in this way, we're really learning from nature's rules.but we can also take it a step further. we can actually take these rules that we've learned from nature and combine them and create entirely new collective behaviors of our very own.so for example, imagine that you had two different kinds of rules. so your first rule is a motion rule where a moving robot can move around other stationary robots. and your second rule is a pattern rule where a robot takes on a color based on its two nearest neighbors. so if i start with a blob of robots in a little pattern seed, it turns out that these two rules are sufficient for the group to be able to self-assemble a simple line pattern. and if i have more complicated pattern rules, and i design error correction rules, we can actually create really, really complicated self assemblies, and here's what that looks like.so here, you're going to see a thousand robots that are working together to self-assemble the letter k. the k is on its side. and the important thing is that no one is in charge. so any single robot is only talking to a small number of robots nearby it, and it's using its motion rule to move around the half-built structure just looking for a place to fit in based on its pattern rules. and even though no robot is doing anything perfectly, the rules are such that we can get the collective to do its goal robustly together. and the illusion becomes almost so perfect, you know — you just start to not even notice that they're individual robots at all, and it becomes a single entity, kind of like the school of fish.so these are robots and rules in two dimensions, but we can also think about robots and rules in three dimensions. so what if we could create robots that could build together? and here, we can take inspiration from social insects. so if you think about mound-building termites or you think about army ants, they create incredible, complex nest structures out of mud and even out of their own bodies. and like the system i showed you before, these insects actually also have pattern rules that help them determine what to build, but the pattern can be made out of other insects, or it could be made out of mud. and we can use that same idea to create rules for robots.so here, you're going to see some simulated robots. so the simulated robot has a motion rule, which is how it traverses through the structure, looking for a place to fit in, and it has pattern rules where it looks at groups of blocks to decide whether to place a block. and with the right motion rules and the right pattern rules, we can actually get the robots to build whatever we want. and of course, everybody wants their own tower. so once we have these rules, we can start to create the robot bodies that go with these rules. so here, you see a robot that can climb over blocks, but it can also lift and move these blocks and it can start to edit the very structure that it's on. but with these rules, this is really only one kind of robot body that you could imagine. you could imagine many different kinds of robot bodies. so if you think about robots that maybe could move sandbags and could help build levees, or we could think of robots that built out of soft materials and worked together to shore up a collapsed building — so just the same kind of rules in different kinds of bodies. or if, like my group, you are completely obsessed with army ants, then maybe one day we can make robots that can climb over literally anything including other members of their tribe, and self-assemble things out of their own bodies. once you understand the rules, just many different kinds of robot visions become possible.and coming back to the snorkeling trip, we actually understand a great deal about the rules that fish schools use. so if we can invent the bodies to go with that, then maybe there is a future where i and my group will get to snorkel with a fish school of our own creation.each of these systems that i showed you brings us closer to having the mathematical and the conceptual tools to create our own versions of collective power, and this can enable many different kinds of future applications, whether you think about robots that build flood barriers or you think about robotic bee colonies that could pollinate crops or underwater schools of robots that monitor coral reefs, or if we reach for the stars and we thinking about programming constellations of satellites. in each of these systems, being able to understand how to design the rules of engagement and being able to create good collective behavior becomes a key to realizing these visions.so, so far i've talked about rules for insects and for fish and for robots, but what about the rules that apply to our own human collective? and the last thought that i'd like to leave you with is that science is of course itself an incredible manifestation of collective intelligence, but unlike the beautiful fish schools that i study, i feel we still have a much longer evolutionary path to walk. so in addition to working on improving the science of robot collectives, i also work on creating robots and thinking about rules that will improve our own scientific collective. there's this saying that i love: who does science determines what science gets done. imagine a society where we had rules of engagement where every child grew up believing that they could stand here and be a technologist of the future, or where every adult believed that they had the ability not just to understand but to change how science and technology impacts their everyday lives. what would that society look like? i believe that we can do that. i believe that we can choose our rules, and we engineer not just robots but we can engineer our own human collective, and if we do and when we do, it will be beautiful.thank you. <title = "A black man goes undercover in the alt-right">
<tags = "['Internet', 'TEDx', 'United States', 'community', 'compassion', 'politics', 'race']">
<occupation = "Public intellectual">
i took a cell phone and accidentally made myself famous. i was just talking about the things that i cared about, but with the click of a button and an incendiary viral video i propelled myself into overnight stardom. when i say overnight, i mean i literally woke up the next morning with so many notifications on my phone, i thought i slept through a national tragedy. it was the craziest thing, guys, but when it came to my influence and my exposure, i literally took a quantum leap. so i made more videos and the subject matter of my videos was often the most divisive subject in american life, but it was the way that i articulated race that made me somewhat of a digital lightning rod. see, being a survivor myself of police brutality and having lost a childhood friend, alonzo ashley, at the hands of the police, i had a little something to say about the topic. you see, this was at the height of the black lives matter furor and people seemed to be turning to me to articulate their viewpoints, and honestly, it was sort of overwhelming.you see, the internet has this interesting quality. in one way, it totally brought the world together, and i remember being a kid and all of this utopian propaganda was being dumped on us about how the world wide web was going to span the reaches of people across the globe. but as it turns out, people are people. and this magical superhighway also took the demons of our nature and gave them ferraris. you see, technology, y'all, is a lot like money. it just brings out what's already inside you and amplifies it. and so i soon became familiar with the phenomenon of the internet troll. these guys seem to live beneath the bridges of said superhighway — and they also missed the memo about the enlightenment of the internet age. i remember being called highly colorful racial slurs by those who use the anonymity of the internet as a klan hood. and some of them were pretty creative, actually, but others were pretty wounding, especially navigating the post-traumatic world of a police brutality survivor in the height of black lives matter, with all of these people being killed on my timeline. to these trolls, i wasn't a human. i was an idea, an object, a caricature. did i mention that this race stuff can be kind of divisive? you see, i'm an innately curious person and as i drew my sword to engage in epic battles in the comment section — i also began to notice that a few of my trolls actually had brains, which made me even more curious and what to understand them even further. and although these supposed morons engaged in what appeared to be original thought, i said to myself, "um, these guys are highly misinformed, at least according to my knowledge." where are these guys getting these arguments from? like, was there some kind of alternative universe with alternative facts? was history and gravity optional over there? i don't know. but i needed to know. like, i wanted to know. and as it turns out, i had no idea about digital echo chambers. that same target marketing algorithm that feeds you more of the products you like to buy also feeds you more of the news that you like to hear. i had been living in an online universe that just reflected my worldview back to me. so my timeline was pretty liberal. i had no breitbart or infowars or fox news. no, no, i was all msnbc and the daily show, cnn and thegrio, right? well, these trolls were hopping the dimensional doorway and i needed to figure out how. so what i decided to do was trick the facebook algorithm into feeding me more news that i didn't necessarily agree with, and this worked fine for a while, but it wasn't enough, because my online footprint already established the patterns that i like to hear. so with the anonymity of the internet, i went undercover. i set up this ghost profile and went crazy. now, on a practical level, it was very simple, but on an emotional level, it was kind of daunting, especially with the racist vitriol that i had experienced. but what i didn't realize is that my trolls were inoculating me, thickening my skin, making me immune to viewpoints that i didn't necessarily agree with, and so i didn't react to the same things as i would have several months prior. all right? so i pressed on.noticing that this stuff also worked on youtube, i became lucius25, white supremacist lurker — and digitally i began to infiltrate the infamous alt-right movement. now, my doppelgänger was edgar rice burroughs' john carter character — a sci-fi hero who was once a confederate soldier. and to think, like, years ago, i would have needed acting training and, like, makeup and a fake id. now i could just lurk. and so i started with a little infowars, went on into some american renaissance, national vanguard alliance, and, you know, i started commenting on videos, talking bad about al sharpton and black lives matter. i started bemoaning race baiters like eric holder and barack obama and just mirroring the antiblack sentiments that were thrown at me. and to be honest, it was kind of exhilarating. like, i would literally spend days clicking through my new racist profile — goofing off at work in aryan land. it was something else. and so i then started visiting some of the pages of my former trolls, and a lot of these guys were just regular joes, a lot of outdoorsmen, hunters, computer nerds, some of them family guys with videos of their families. i mean, for all i know, some of y'all could be in this room right now. right? but when i went undercover, i found a lovely plethora of characters, luminaries like milo yiannopoulos, richard spencer and david duke. all of these guys were thought leaders in their own right, but over time, the alt-right movement ended up using their information to fuel their momentum. and i'm going to tell you what else led to the momentum of the alt-right: the left wing's wholesale demonization of everything white and male. if you are a pale-skinned penis-haver, you're in league with satan. now, would you believe, would you believe that some people find that offensive? and — and so, i mean, listen, the fact is that millennials get a lifetime of diet brand history. i mean, america seems to be hellbent on filling its textbooks with cliffsnotes versions of its dark past. this severely, severely decontextualizes race and the anger associated with it, and that is fertile ground for alt-facts to grow. add in the wild landscape of the internet and it's easy to sell rebranded "mein kampf" ideas to a generation who has been failed by public schools.a lot of these ideas, easily debunked. alt-facts have that quality. however, one theme kept screaming at me through the subtext of those arguments, and that was, why should i be hated for who i cannot help but be? now, as a black man in america, that resonated with me. i have spent so much time defending myself against attempts to demonize me and make me apologize for who i am, trying to portray me as something that i'm not, some kind of thug or gangster, a menace to society. unexpected compassion. wow. now, listen, the historical source of the demonization of black males and white males is highly different, and where you fall on this argument, sadly, tends to be an accident of birth.now, you're probably surprised by this perspective, and so was i. never in a billion years did i think that i could have some kind of compassion for people who hated my guts. now, mind you, not enough compassion like i want to be friends. i don't have infinite olive branches to extend to people who, like, would not want to see me on this planet. right? but just enough compassion to understand how they got to where they are. and to be honest, there were a couple of fair points. one of them was how liberals have this wide acceptance for everybody except for those with honestly held conservative viewpoints. heaven forbid you love god, this country and mean it. right?and another thing that they talked about was this fear that they had of something that they labeled as "white genocide," that diversity would be a force that would wipe them out. now listen, i know what it is to fear for the fate of your people. between crack, aids, gang violence, mass incarceration, gentrification, police shootings, black people have more than enough reasons to stay up at night. but if nature is into diversity and you are not, you're going to lose that fight, buddy. you see, nature doesn't care about your race. that's man-made. nature just cares about healthy organisms, and your precious ethnic features are expendable to that aim. so the moment that you let go of that racist identity and relatch onto humanity, all your problems go away. i'm going to tell you what race ain't about to die out: the human race. join the party. the water's great. until the water gets too hot, but that's another ted talk. the point is that to get to this point of understanding, you have to let go of that fear and embrace your curiosity, and sadly, too many people will not take that journey to see the world from the other side. and, i mean, let's be honest, that doesn't just go for progressives, but also to the right wing and conservatives. you know, as fair as some of their points were, they were still trapped in their own echo chambers, recycling old, outdated points of view, never getting a diversity in perspective, not making them well-rounded in their worldview. so they're not hearing certain anti-racist and political voices, voices like tim wise and michelle alexander, dr. joy degruy, boyce watkins, tariq nasheed. all of these voices have the answers to the questions that they want, but unfortunately they will not hear them due to the power of these echo chambers. we have got to break out of these digital divides, because as our technology advances, the consequences of our tribalism become more dangerous.and this whole experience taught me something: our gadgets ain't going to save us. all these technological devices are only mastery of the universe out there, not the one in here. and so that's all iq, not eq. that's a dangerous imbalance. where do you get the emotional intelligence, the character development, the virtues of patience, forbearance, compassion, you know, the things that make sure that these devices, however advanced, become a blessing and not a curse? seems to be me that humanity itself needs an upgrade.now — that's a big task, understandably, but i don't believe in any kind of unbeatable monster. there was no giant out there without perhaps a simple achilles heel. and what if i told you that one of the best ways to actually overcome this is to have courageous conversations with difficult people, people who do not see the world the same way that you see the world? oh yes, folks, conversations may be indeed the key to that upgrade, because remember, language was the first form of virtual reality. it is literally a symbolic representation of the physical world, and through this device, we change the physical world. keep in mind, conversations stop violence, conversations start countries, they build bridges, and when the chips are down, conversations are the last tools that humans use before they pick up their guns. and i ain't talking about online safe conversations from the security of your laptop. no. i'm talking about in-your-face conversations with real, breathing people. and for me, this looks like running a community forum called shop talk live.now, in shop talk live — somebody's been there, right? in shop talk live, we have the conversations that change lives. we meet the community right where they are, and we've done everything from divert gang violence in real time to help find people jobs to mentoring homeless youth. and the reason why we needed to do this is because there was a severe lack of trust in the black community due to the violence of the crack era. and so we ended up taking agency into our own hands, solving our own problems, not waiting for anybody else. and the truth is, from the mayor to the felon, you're going to find them in that barber shop. and so what we did was just organize what was already going on. and so what i started doing was mining these alternative viewpoints from these alternative digital universes, dissecting them, breaking them down into controversial talking points. then, with my cell phone, i flipped the internet against itself and began to broadcast these live conversations to my online followers. this made them want to leave the safety of their laptops and meet us in person to have real conversations with real people in real life. and we did this. thank you. sometimes i sit back, and i reflect on the paradox of me just trying to solve the problems, us trying to solve the problems in our own communities — we build bridges to so many other communities, from the lgbtq community to the arab immigrant community and even sat down with somebody with a confederate flag on their hat and talked about the things that actually matter.it is time that we stop trying to hack our way around the human experience. there is no way out of each other. stop trying to find one. we have to understand something. human beings all want the same things and we have to go through each other to get these things. these courageous conversations are the way that these bridges are built. it's time that we start seeing people as people and not simply the ideas that we project onto them or react to. human beings are not the barriers but the gateways to the very things that we want. this is a collective and conscious evolution.my journey began with a terribly popular cell phone video and a fallen friend. your journey begins right about now. join the renaissance in human connection. it is going to happen with or without you. my suggestion: pick a topic, and start a community dialogue in your neck of the woods. meet folks back in real life. and i'm going to tell you, when you trick the algorithm of your existence, you will get some diversified experiences. it is time to grow, people. and when we do this, not if, it will be clear that the key to this upgrade was always our inner world, not some device that we create, and the doorways to this experience is now, and will forever be, each other.thank you. 