<title = "Stunning photos of the endangered Everglades">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'animals', 'nature', 'photography']">
<occupation = "Photographer">
so i've had the great privilege of traveling to some incredible places, photographing these distant landscapes and remote cultures all over the world. i love my job.but people think it's this string of epiphanies and sunrises and rainbows, when in reality, it looks more something like this. this is my office.we can't afford the fanciest places to stay at night, so we tend to sleep a lot outdoors. as long as we can stay dry, that's a bonus. we also can't afford the fanciest restaurants. so we tend to eat whatever's on the local menu. and if you're in the ecuadorian páramo, you're going to eat a large rodent called a cuy. but what makes our experiences perhaps a little bit different and a little more unique than that of the average person is that we have this gnawing thing in the back of our mind that even in our darkest moments, and those times of despair, we think, "hey, there might be an image to be made here, there might be a story to be told."and why is storytelling important? well, it helps us to connect with our cultural and our natural heritage. and in the southeast, there's an alarming disconnect between the public and the natural areas that allow us to be here in the first place. we're visual creatures, so we use what we see to teach us what we know.now the majority of us aren't going to willingly go way down to a swamp. so how can we still expect those same people to then advocate on behalf of their protection? we can't.so my job, then, is to use photography as a communication tool, to help bridge the gap between the science and the aesthetics, to get people talking, to get them thinking, and to hopefully, ultimately, get them caring.i started doing this 15 years ago right here in gainesville, right here in my backyard. and i fell in love with adventure and discovery, going to explore all these different places that were just minutes from my front doorstep. there are a lot of beautiful places to find. despite all these years that have passed, i still see the world through the eyes of a child and i try to incorporate that sense of wonderment and that sense of curiosity into my photography as often as i can.and we're pretty lucky because here in the south, we're still blessed with a relatively blank canvas that we can fill with the most fanciful adventures and incredible experiences. it's just a matter of how far our imagination will take us. see, a lot of people look at this and they say, "oh yeah, wow, that's a pretty tree." but i don't just see a tree — i look at this and i see opportunity. i see an entire weekend. because when i was a kid, these were the types of images that got me off the sofa and dared me to explore, dared me to go find the woods and put my head underwater and see what we have.and folks, i've been photographing all over the world and i promise you, what we have here in the south, what we have in the sunshine state, rivals anything else that i've seen. but yet our tourism industry is busy promoting all the wrong things. before most kids are 12, they'll have been to disney world more times than they've been in a canoe or camping under a starry sky. and i have nothing against disney or mickey; i used to go there, too. but they're missing out on those fundamental connections that create a real sense of pride and ownership for the place that they call home.and this is compounded by the issue that the landscapes that define our natural heritage and fuel our aquifer for our drinking water have been deemed as scary and dangerous and spooky. when our ancestors first came here, they warned, "stay out of these areas, they're haunted. they're full of evil spirits and ghosts." i don't know where they came up with that idea. but it's actually led to a very real disconnect, a very real negative mentality that has kept the public disinterested, silent, and ultimately, our environment at risk. we're a state that's surrounded and defined by water, and yet for centuries, swamps and wetlands have been regarded as these obstacles to overcome. and so we've treated them as these second-class ecosystems, because they have very little monetary value and of course, they're known to harbor alligators and snakes — which, i'll admit, these aren't the most cuddly of ambassadors. so it became assumed, then, that the only good swamp was a drained swamp. and in fact, draining a swamp to make way for agriculture and development was considered the very essence of conservation not too long ago.but now we're backpedaling, because the more we come to learn about these sodden landscapes, the more secrets we're starting to unlock about interspecies relationships and the connectivity of habitats, watersheds and flyways. take this bird, for example: this is the prothonotary warbler. i love this bird because it's a swamp bird, through and through, a swamp bird. they nest and they mate and they breed in these old-growth swamps in these flooded forests. and so after the spring, after they raise their young, they then fly thousand of miles over the gulf of mexico into central and south america. and then after the winter, the spring rolls around and they come back. they fly thousands of miles over the gulf of mexico. and where do they go? where do they land? right back in the same tree. that's nuts. this is a bird the size of a tennis ball — i mean, that's crazy! i used a gps to get here today, and this is my hometown. it's crazy. so what happens, then, when this bird flies over the gulf of mexico into central america for the winter and then the spring rolls around and it flies back, and it comes back to this: a freshly sodded golf course?this is a narrative that's all too commonly unraveling here in this state. and this is a natural process that's occurred for thousands of years and we're just now learning about it. so you can imagine all else we have to learn about these landscapes if we just preserve them first. now despite all this rich life that abounds in these swamps, they still have a bad name.many people feel uncomfortable with the idea of wading into florida's blackwater. i can understand that. but what i loved about growing up in the sunshine state is that for so many of us, we live with this latent but very palpable fear that when we put our toes into the water, there might be something much more ancient and much more adapted than we are. knowing that you're not top dog is a welcomed discomfort, i think. how often in this modern and urban and digital age do you actually get the chance to feel vulnerable, or consider that the world may not have been made for just us?so for the last decade, i began seeking out these areas where the concrete yields to forest and the pines turn to cypress, and i viewed all these mosquitoes and reptiles, all these discomforts, as affirmations that i'd found true wilderness, and i embrace them wholly. now as a conservation photographer obsessed with blackwater, it's only fitting that i'd eventually end up in the most famous swamp of all: the everglades.growing up here in north central florida, it always had these enchanted names, places like loxahatchee and fakahatchee, corkscrew, big cypress. i started what turned into a five-year project to hopefully reintroduce the everglades in a new light, in a more inspired light. but i knew this would be a tall order, because here you have an area that's roughly a third the size the state of florida, it's huge. and when i say everglades, most people are like, "oh, yeah, the national park." but the everglades is not just a park; it's an entire watershed, starting with the kissimmee chain of lakes in the north, and then as the rains would fall in the summer, these downpours would flow into lake okeechobee, and lake okeechobee would fill up and it would overflow its banks and spill southward, ever slowly, with the topography, and get into the river of grass, the sawgrass prairies, before meting into the cypress slews, until going further south into the mangrove swamps, and then finally — finally — reaching florida bay, the emerald gem of the everglades, the great estuary, the 850 square-mile estuary.so sure, the national park is the southern end of this system, but all the things that make it unique are these inputs that come in, the fresh water that starts 100 miles north. so no manner of these political or invisible boundaries protect the park from polluted water or insufficient water. and unfortunately, that's precisely what we've done. over the last 60 years, we have drained, we have dammed, we have dredged the everglades to where now only one third of the water that used to reach the bay now reaches the bay today. so this story is not all sunshine and rainbows, unfortunately. for better or for worse, the story of the everglades is intrinsically tied to the peaks and the valleys of mankind's relationship with the natural world.but i'll show you these beautiful pictures, because it gets you on board. and while i have your attention, i can tell you the real story. it's that we're taking this, and we're trading it for this, at an alarming rate. and what's lost on so many people is the sheer scale of which we're discussing. because the everglades is not just responsible for the drinking water for 7 million floridians; today it also provides the agricultural fields for the year-round tomatoes and oranges for over 300 million americans. and it's that same seasonal pulse of water in the summer that built the river of grass 6,000 years ago. ironically, today, it's also responsible for the over half a million acres of the endless river of sugarcane. these are the same fields that are responsible for dumping exceedingly high levels of fertilizers into the watershed, forever changing the system.but in order for you to not just understand how this system works, but to also get personally connected to it, i decided to break the story down into several different narratives. and i wanted that story to start in lake okeechobee, the beating heart of the everglade system. and to do that, i picked an ambassador, an iconic species. this is the everglade snail kite. it's a great bird, and they used to nest in the thousands, thousands in the northern everglades. and then they've gone down to about 400 nesting pairs today. and why is that? well, it's because they eat one source of food, an apple snail, about the size of a ping-pong ball, an aquatic gastropod.so as we started damming up the everglades, as we started diking lake okeechobee and draining the wetlands, we lost the habitat for the snail. and thus, the population of the kites declined. and so, i wanted a photo that would not only communicate this relationship between wetland, snail and bird, but i also wanted a photo that would communicate how incredible this relationship was, and how very important it is that they've come to depend on each other, this healthy wetland and this bird. and to do that, i brainstormed this idea. i started sketching out these plans to make a photo, and i sent it to the wildlife biologist down in okeechobee — this is an endangered bird, so it takes special permission to do. so i built this submerged platform that would hold snails just right under the water. and i spent months planning this crazy idea. and i took this platform down to lake okeechobee and i spent over a week in the water, wading waist-deep, 9-hour shifts from dawn until dusk, to get one image that i thought might communicate this. and here's the day that it finally worked:[video: (mac stone narrating) after setting up the platform, i look off and i see a kite coming over the cattails. and i see him scanning and searching. and he gets right over the trap, and i see that he's seen it. and he beelines, he goes straight for the trap. and in that moment, all those months of planning, waiting, all the sunburn, mosquito bites — suddenly, they're all worth it. (mac stone in film) oh my gosh, i can't believe it!]you can believe how excited i was when that happened. but what the idea was, is that for someone who's never seen this bird and has no reason to care about it, these photos, these new perspectives, will help shed a little new light on just one species that makes this watershed so incredible, so valuable, so important. now, i know i can't come here to gainesville and talk to you about animals in the everglades without talking about gators. i love gators, i grew up loving gators. my parents always said i had an unhealthy relationship with gators. but what i like about them is, they're like the freshwater equivalent of sharks. they're feared, they're hated, and they are tragically misunderstood. because these are a unique species, they're not just apex predators. in the everglades, they are the very architects of the everglades, because as the water drops down in the winter during the dry season, they start excavating these holes called gator holes. and they do this because as the water drops down, they'll be able to stay wet and they'll be able to forage. and now this isn't just affecting them, other animals also depend on this relationship, so they become a keystone species as well. so how do you make an apex predator, an ancient reptile, at once look like it dominates the system, but at the same time, look vulnerable? well, you wade into a pit of about 120 of them, then you hope that you've made the right decision. i still have all my fingers, it's cool.but i understand, i know i'm not going to rally you guys, i'm not going to rally the troops to "save the everglades for the gators!" it won't happen because they're so ubiquitous, we see them now, they're one of the great conservation success stories of the us. but there is one species in the everglades that no matter who you are, you can't help but love, too, and that's the roseate spoonbill. these birds are great, but they've had a really tough time in the everglades, because they started out with thousands of nesting pairs in florida bay, and at the turn of the 20th century, they got down to two — two nesting pairs. and why? that's because women thought they looked better on their hats then they did flying in the sky. then we banned the plume trade, and their numbers started rebounding. and as their numbers started rebounding, scientists began to pay attention, they started studying these birds.and what they found out is that these birds' behavior is intrinsically tied to the annual draw-down cycle of water in the everglades, the thing that defines the everglades watershed. what they found out is that these birds started nesting in the winter as the water drew down, because they're tactile feeders, so they have to touch whatever they eat. and so they wait for these concentrated pools of fish to be able to feed enough to feed their young. so these birds became the very icon of the everglades — an indicator species of the overall health of the system. and just as their numbers were rebounding in the mid-20th century — shooting up to 900, 1,000, 1,100, 1,200 — just as that started happening, we started draining the southern everglades. and we stopped two-thirds of that water from moving south. and it had drastic consequences. and just as those numbers started reaching their peak, unfortunately, today, the real spoonbill story, the real photo of what it looks like is more something like this. and we're down to less than 70 nesting pairs in florida bay today, because we've disrupted the system so much. so all these different organizations are shouting, they're screaming, "the everglades is fragile! it's fragile!" it is not. it is resilient. because despite all we've taken, despite all we've done and we've drained and we've dammed and we've dredged it, pieces of it are still here, waiting to be put back together.and this is what i've loved about south florida, that in one place, you have this unstoppable force of mankind meeting the immovable object of tropical nature. and it's at this new frontier that we are forced with a new appraisal. what is wilderness worth? what is the value of biodiversity, or our drinking water? and fortunately, after decades of debate, we're finally starting to act on those questions. we're slowly undertaking these projects to bring more freshwater back to the bay. but it's up to us as citizens, as residents, as stewards to hold our elected officials to their promises.what can you do to help? it's so easy. just get outside, get out there. take your friends out, take your kids out, take your family out. hire a fishing guide. show the state that protecting wilderness not only makes ecological sense, but economic sense as well. it's a lot of fun, just do it — put your feet in the water. the swamp will change you, i promise.over the years, we've been so generous with these other landscapes around the country, cloaking them with this american pride, places that we now consider to define us: grand canyon, yosemite, yellowstone. and we use these parks and these natural areas as beacons and as cultural compasses. and sadly, the everglades is very commonly left out of that conversation. but i believe it's every bit as iconic and emblematic of who we are as a country as any of these other wildernesses. it's just a different kind of wild.but i'm encouraged, because maybe we're finally starting to come around, because what was once deemed this swampy wasteland, today is a world heritage site. it's a wetland of international importance. and we've come a long way in the last 60 years. and as the world's largest and most ambitious wetland restoration project, the international spotlight is on us in the sunshine state. because if we can heal this system, it's going to become an icon for wetland restoration all over the world. but it's up to us to decide which legacy we want to attach our flag to.they say that the everglades is our greatest test. if we pass it, we get to keep the planet. i love that quote, because it's a challenge, it's a prod. can we do it? will we do it? we have to, we must. but the everglades is not just a test. it's also a gift, and ultimately, our responsibility.thank you. <title = "How my mind came back to life — and no one knew">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'brain', 'communication', 'health', 'health care', 'mind', 'speech']">
<occupation = "Author, designer">
imagine being unable to say, "i am hungry," "i am in pain," "thank you," or "i love you." being trapped inside your body, a body that doesn't respond to commands. surrounded by people, yet utterly alone. wishing you could reach out, to connect, to comfort, to participate. for 13 long years, that was my reality.most of us never think twice about talking, about communicating. i've thought a lot about it. i've had a lot of time to think.for the first 12 years of my life, i was a normal, happy, healthy little boy. then everything changed. i contracted a brain infection. the doctors weren't sure what it was, but they treated me the best they could. however, i progressively got worse. eventually, i lost my ability to control my movements, make eye contact, and finally, my ability to speak.while in hospital, i desperately wanted to go home. i said to my mother, "when home?" those were the last words i ever spoke with my own voice. i would eventually fail every test for mental awareness. my parents were told i was as good as not there. a vegetable, having the intelligence of a three-month-old baby. they were told to take me home and try to keep me comfortable until i died.my parents, in fact my entire family's lives, became consumed by taking care of me the best they knew how. their friends drifted away. one year turned to two, two turned to three. it seemed like the person i once was began to disappear. the lego blocks and electronic circuits i'd loved as a boy were put away. i had been moved out of my bedroom into another more practical one. i had become a ghost, a faded memory of a boy people once knew and loved.meanwhile, my mind began knitting itself back together. gradually, my awareness started to return. but no one realized that i had come back to life. i was aware of everything, just like any normal person. i could see and understand everything, but i couldn't find a way to let anybody know. my personality was entombed within a seemingly silent body, a vibrant mind hidden in plain sight within a chrysalis.the stark reality hit me that i was going to spend the rest of my life locked inside myself, totally alone. i was trapped with only my thoughts for company. i would never be rescued. no one would ever show me tenderness. i would never talk to a friend. no one would ever love me. i had no dreams, no hope, nothing to look forward to. well, nothing pleasant. i lived in fear, and, to put it bluntly, was waiting for death to finally release me, expecting to die all alone in a care home.i don't know if it's truly possible to express in words what it's like not to be able to communicate. your personality appears to vanish into a heavy fog and all of your emotions and desires are constricted, stifled and muted within you. for me, the worst was the feeling of utter powerlessness. i simply existed. it's a very dark place to find yourself because in a sense, you have vanished. other people controlled every aspect of my life. they decided what i ate and when. whether i was laid on my side or strapped into my wheelchair. i often spent my days positioned in front of the tv watching barney reruns. i think because barney is so happy and jolly, and i absolutely wasn't, it made it so much worse.i was completely powerless to change anything in my life or people's perceptions of me. i was a silent, invisible observer of how people behaved when they thought no one was watching. unfortunately, i wasn't only an observer. with no way to communicate, i became the perfect victim: a defenseless object, seemingly devoid of feelings that people used to play out their darkest desires. for more than 10 years, people who were charged with my care abused me physically, verbally and sexually. despite what they thought, i did feel. the first time it happened, i was shocked and filled with disbelief. how could they do this to me? i was confused. what had i done to deserve this? part of me wanted to cry and another part wanted to fight. hurt, sadness and anger flooded through me. i felt worthless. there was no one to comfort me. but neither of my parents knew this was happening. i lived in terror, knowing it would happen again and again. i just never knew when. all i knew was that i would never be the same. i remember once listening to whitney houston singing, "no matter what they take from me, they can't take away my dignity." and i thought to myself, "you want to bet?"perhaps my parents could have found out and could have helped. but the years of constant caretaking, having to wake up every two hours to turn me, combined with them essentially grieving the loss of their son, had taken a toll on my mother and father. following yet another heated argument between my parents, in a moment of despair and desperation, my mother turned to me and told me that i should die. i was shocked, but as i thought about what she had said, i was filled with enormous compassion and love for my mother, yet i could do nothing about it.there were many moments when i gave up, sinking into a dark abyss. i remember one particularly low moment. my dad left me alone in the car while he quickly went to buy something from the store. a random stranger walked past, looked at me and he smiled. i may never know why, but that simple act, the fleeting moment of human connection, transformed how i was feeling, making me want to keep going.my existence was tortured by monotony, a reality that was often too much to bear. alone with my thoughts, i constructed intricate fantasies about ants running across the floor. i taught myself to tell the time by noticing where the shadows were. as i learned how the shadows moved as the hours of the day passed, i understood how long it would be before i was picked up and taken home. seeing my father walk through the door to collect me was the best moment of the day.my mind became a tool that i could use to either close down to retreat from my reality or enlarge into a gigantic space that i could fill with fantasies. i hoped that my reality would change and someone would see that i had come back to life. but i had been washed away like a sand castle built too close to the waves, and in my place was the person people expected me to be. to some i was martin, a vacant shell, the vegetable, deserving of harsh words, dismissal and even abuse. to others, i was the tragically brain-damaged boy who had grown to become a man. someone they were kind to and cared for. good or bad, i was a blank canvas onto which different versions of myself were projected.it took someone new to see me in a different way. an aromatherapist began coming to the care home about once a week. whether through intuition or her attention to details that others failed to notice, she became convinced that i could understand what was being said. she urged my parents to have me tested by experts in augmentative and alternative communication. and within a year, i was beginning to use a computer program to communicate. it was exhilarating, but frustrating at times. i had so many words in my mind, that i couldn't wait to be able to share them. sometimes, i would say things to myself simply because i could. in myself, i had a ready audience, and i believed that by expressing my thoughts and wishes, others would listen, too.but as i began to communicate more, i realized that it was in fact only just the beginning of creating a new voice for myself. i was thrust into a world i didn't quite know how to function in. i stopped going to the care home and managed to get my first job making photocopies. as simple as this may sound, it was amazing. my new world was really exciting but often quite overwhelming and frightening. i was like a man-child, and as liberating as it often was, i struggled. i also learned that many of those who had known me for a long time found it impossible to abandon the idea of martin they had in their heads. while those i had only just met struggled to look past the image of a silent man in a wheelchair. i realized that some people would only listen to me if what i said was in line with what they expected. otherwise, it was disregarded and they did what they felt was best.i discovered that true communication is about more than merely physically conveying a message. it is about getting the message heard and respected. still, things were going well. my body was slowly getting stronger. i had a job in computing that i loved, and had even got kojak, the dog i had been dreaming about for years.however, i longed to share my life with someone. i remember staring out the window as my dad drove me home from work, thinking i have so much love inside of me and nobody to give it to. just as i had resigned myself to being single for the rest of my life, i met joan. not only is she the best thing that has ever happened to me, but joan helped me to challenge my own misconceptions about myself. joan said it was through my words that she fell in love with me. however, after all i had been through, i still couldn't shake the belief that nobody could truly see beyond my disability and accept me for who i am.i also really struggled to comprehend that i was a man. the first time someone referred to me as a man, it stopped me in my tracks. i felt like looking around and asking, "who, me?" that all changed with joan. we have an amazing connection and i learned how important it is to communicate openly and honestly. i felt safe, and it gave me the confidence to truly say what i thought. i started to feel whole again, a man worthy of love.i began to reshape my destiny. i spoke up a little more at work. i asserted my need for independence to the people around me. being given a means of communication changed everything. i used the power of words and will to challenge the preconceptions of those around me and those i had of myself.communication is what makes us human, enabling us to connect on the deepest level with those around us — telling our own stories, expressing wants, needs and desires, or hearing those of others by really listening. all this is how the world knows who we are. so who are we without it?true communication increases understanding and creates a more caring and compassionate world. once, i was perceived to be an inanimate object, a mindless phantom of a boy in a wheelchair. today, i am so much more. a husband, a son, a friend, a brother, a business owner, a first-class honors graduate, a keen amateur photographer. it is my ability to communicate that has given me all this.we are told that actions speak louder than words. but i wonder, do they? our words, however we communicate them, are just as powerful. whether we speak the words with our own voices, type them with our eyes, or communicate them non-verbally to someone who speaks them for us, words are among our most powerful tools.i have come to you through a terrible darkness, pulled from it by caring souls and by language itself. the act of you listening to me today brings me farther into the light. we are shining here together. if there is one most difficult obstacle to my way of communicating, it is that sometimes i want to shout and other times simply to whisper a word of love or gratitude. it all sounds the same. but if you will, please imagine these next two words as warmly as you can:thank you. <title = "Why some of us don't have one true calling">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'creativity', 'curiosity', 'education', 'identity', 'personal growth', 'work']">
<occupation = "Writer, coach, artist ...">
raise your hand if you've ever been asked the question "what do you want to be when you grow up?"now if you had to guess, how old would you say you were when you were first asked this question? you can just hold up fingers. three. five. three. five. five. ok. now, raise your hand if the question "what do you want to be when you grow up?" has ever caused you any anxiety. any anxiety at all.i'm someone who's never been able to answer the question "what do you want to be when you grow up?"see, the problem wasn't that i didn't have any interests — it's that i had too many. in high school, i liked english and math and art and i built websites and i played guitar in a punk band called frustrated telephone operator. maybe you've heard of us. this continued after high school, and at a certain point, i began to notice this pattern in myself where i would become interested in an area and i would dive in, become all-consumed, and i'd get to be pretty good at whatever it was, and then i would hit this point where i'd start to get bored. and usually i would try and persist anyway, because i had already devoted so much time and energy and sometimes money into this field. but eventually this sense of boredom, this feeling of, like, yeah, i got this, this isn't challenging anymore — it would get to be too much. and i would have to let it go.but then i would become interested in something else, something totally unrelated, and i would dive into that, and become all-consumed, and i'd be like, "yes! i found my thing," and then i would hit this point again where i'd start to get bored. and eventually, i would let it go. but then i would discover something new and totally different, and i would dive into that.this pattern caused me a lot of anxiety, for two reasons. the first was that i wasn't sure how i was going to turn any of this into a career. i thought that i would eventually have to pick one thing, deny all of my other passions, and just resign myself to being bored. the other reason it caused me so much anxiety was a little bit more personal. i worried that there was something wrong with this, and something wrong with me for being unable to stick with anything. i worried that i was afraid of commitment, or that i was scattered, or that i was self-sabotaging, afraid of my own success.if you can relate to my story and to these feelings, i'd like you to ask yourself a question that i wish i had asked myself back then. ask yourself where you learned to assign the meaning of wrong or abnormal to doing many things. i'll tell you where you learned it: you learned it from the culture.we are first asked the question "what do you want to be when you grow up?" when we're about five years old. and the truth is that no one really cares what you say when you're that age. it's considered an innocuous question, posed to little kids to elicit cute replies, like, "i want to be an astronaut," or "i want to be a ballerina," or "i want to be a pirate." insert halloween costume here. but this question gets asked of us again and again as we get older in various forms — for instance, high school students might get asked what major they're going to pick in college. and at some point, "what do you want to be when you grow up?" goes from being the cute exercise it once was to the thing that keeps us up at night. why?see, while this question inspires kids to dream about what they could be, it does not inspire them to dream about all that they could be. in fact, it does just the opposite, because when someone asks you what you want to be, you can't reply with 20 different things, though well-meaning adults will likely chuckle and be like, "oh, how cute, but you can't be a violin maker and a psychologist. you have to choose."this is dr. bob childs — and he's a luthier and psychotherapist. and this is amy ng, a magazine editor turned illustrator, entrepreneur, teacher and creative director. but most kids don't hear about people like this. all they hear is that they're going to have to choose. but it's more than that. the notion of the narrowly focused life is highly romanticized in our culture. it's this idea of destiny or the one true calling, the idea that we each have one great thing we are meant to do during our time on this earth, and you need to figure out what that thing is and devote your life to it.but what if you're someone who isn't wired this way? what if there are a lot of different subjects that you're curious about, and many different things you want to do? well, there is no room for someone like you in this framework. and so you might feel alone. you might feel like you don't have a purpose. and you might feel like there's something wrong with you. there's nothing wrong with you. what you are is a multipotentialite. a multipotentialite is someone with many interests and creative pursuits. it's a mouthful to say. it might help if you break it up into three parts: multi, potential, and ite. you can also use one of the other terms that connote the same idea, such as polymath, the renaissance person. actually, during the renaissance period, it was considered the ideal to be well-versed in multiple disciplines. barbara sher refers to us as "scanners." use whichever term you like, or invent your own. i have to say i find it sort of fitting that as a community, we cannot agree on a single identity. it's easy to see your multipotentiality as a limitation or an affliction that you need to overcome. but what i've learned through speaking with people and writing about these ideas on my website, is that there are some tremendous strengths to being this way. here are three multipotentialite super powers.one: idea synthesis. that is, combining two or more fields and creating something new at the intersection. sha hwang and rachel binx drew from their shared interests in cartography, data visualization, travel, mathematics and design, when they founded meshu. meshu is a company that creates custom geographically-inspired jewelry. sha and rachel came up with this unique idea not despite, but because of their eclectic mix of skills and experiences. innovation happens at the intersections. that's where the new ideas come from. and multipotentialites, with all of their backgrounds, are able to access a lot of these points of intersection.the second multipotentialite superpower is rapid learning. when multipotentialites become interested in something, we go hard. we observe everything we can get our hands on. we're also used to being beginners, because we've been beginners so many times in the past, and this means that we're less afraid of trying new things and stepping out of our comfort zones. what's more, many skills are transferable across disciplines, and we bring everything we've learned to every new area we pursue, so we're rarely starting from scratch.nora dunn is a full-time traveler and freelance writer. as a child concert pianist, she honed an incredible ability to develop muscle memory. now, she's the fastest typist she knows. before becoming a writer, nora was a financial planner. she had to learn the finer mechanics of sales when she was starting her practice, and this skill now helps her write compelling pitches to editors. it is rarely a waste of time to pursue something you're drawn to, even if you end up quitting. you might apply that knowledge in a different field entirely, in a way that you couldn't have anticipated.the third multipotentialite superpower is adaptability; that is, the ability to morph into whatever you need to be in a given situation. abe cajudo is sometimes a video director, sometimes a web designer, sometimes a kickstarter consultant, sometimes a teacher, and sometimes, apparently, james bond. he's valuable because he does good work. he's even more valuable because he can take on various roles, depending on his clients' needs. fast company magazine identified adaptability as the single most important skill to develop in order to thrive in the 21st century. the economic world is changing so quickly and unpredictably that it is the individuals and organizations that can pivot in order to meet the needs of the market that are really going to thrive.idea synthesis, rapid learning and adaptability: three skills that multipotentialites are very adept at, and three skills that they might lose if pressured to narrow their focus. as a society, we have a vested interest in encouraging multipotentialites to be themselves. we have a lot of complex, multidimensional problems in the world right now, and we need creative, out-of-the-box thinkers to tackle them.now, let's say that you are, in your heart, a specialist. you came out of the womb knowing you wanted to be a pediatric neurosurgeon. don't worry — there's nothing wrong with you, either. in fact, some of the best teams are comprised of a specialist and multipotentialite paired together. the specialist can dive in deep and implement ideas, while the multipotentialite brings a breadth of knowledge to the project. it's a beautiful partnership. but we should all be designing lives and careers that are aligned with how we're wired. and sadly, multipotentialites are largely being encouraged simply to be more like their specialist peers.so with that said, if there is one thing you take away from this talk, i hope that it is this: embrace your inner wiring, whatever that may be. if you're a specialist at heart, then by all means, specialize. that is where you'll do your best work. but to the multipotentialites in the room, including those of you who may have just realized in the last 12 minutes that you are one — to you i say: embrace your many passions. follow your curiosity down those rabbit holes. explore your intersections. embracing our inner wiring leads to a happier, more authentic life. and perhaps more importantly — multipotentialites, the world needs us.thank you. <title = "Climate change is happening. Here's how we adapt">
<tags = "['big problems', 'climate change', 'economics', 'energy', 'future', 'global issues', 'green', 'infrastructure', 'policy', 'pollution', 'science', 'social change', 'sustainability']">
<occupation = "Climate scholar">
over our lifetimes, we've all contributed to climate change. actions, choices and behaviors will have led to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. and i think that that's quite a powerful thought. but it does have the potential to make us feel guilty when we think about decisions we might have made around where to travel to, how often and how, about the energy that we choose to use in our homes or in our workplaces, or quite simply the lifestyles that we lead and enjoy. but we can also turn that thought on its head, and think that if we've had such a profound but a negative impact on our climate already, then we have an opportunity to influence the amount of future climate change that we will need to adapt to.so we have a choice. we can either choose to start to take climate change seriously, and significantly cut and mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions, and then we will have to adapt to less of the climate change impacts in future. alternatively, we can continue to really ignore the climate change problem. but if we do that, we are also choosing to adapt to very much more powerful climate impacts in future. and not only that. as people who live in countries with high per capita emissions, we're making that choice on behalf of others as well. but the choice that we don't have is a no climate change future.over the last two decades, our government negotiators and policymakers have been coming together to discuss climate change, and they've been focused on avoiding a two-degree centigrade warming above pre-industrial levels. that's the temperature that's associated with dangerous impacts across a range of different indicators, to humans and to the environment. so two degrees centigrade constitutes dangerous climate change.but dangerous climate change can be subjective. so if we think about an extreme weather event that might happen in some part of the world, and if that happens in a part of the world where there is good infrastructure, where there are people that are well-insured and so on, then that impact can be disruptive. it can cause upset, it could cause cost. it could even cause some deaths. but if that exact same weather event happens in a part of the world where there is poor infrastructure, or where people are not well-insured, or they're not having good support networks, then that same climate change impact could be devastating. it could cause a significant loss of home, but it could also cause significant amounts of death.so this is a graph of the co2 emissions at the left-hand side from fossil fuel and industry, and time from before the industrial revolution out towards the present day. and what's immediately striking about this is that emissions have been growing exponentially. if we focus in on a shorter period of time from 1950, we have established in 1988 the intergovernmental panel on climate change, the rio earth summit in 1992, then rolling on a few years, in 2009 we had the copenhagen accord, where it established avoiding a two-degree temperature rise in keeping with the science and on the basis of equity. and then in 2012, we had the rio+20 event. and all the way through, during all of these meetings and many others as well, emissions have continued to rise. and if we focus on our historical emission trend in recent years, and we put that together with our understanding of the direction of travel in our global economy, then we are much more on track for a four-degree centigrade global warming than we are for the two-degree centigrade.now, let's just pause for a moment and think about this four-degree global average temperature. most of our planet is actually made up of the sea. now, because the sea has a greater thermal inertia than the land, the average temperatures over land are actually going to be higher than they are over the sea. the second thing is that we as human beings don't experience global average temperatures. we experience hot days, cold days, rainy days, especially if you live in manchester like me.so now put yourself in a city center. imagine somewhere in the world: mumbai, beijing, new york, london. it's the hottest day that you've ever experienced. there's sun beating down, there's concrete and glass all around you. now imagine that same day — but it's six, eight, maybe 10 to 12 degrees warmer on that day during that heat wave. that's the kind of thing we're going to experience under a four-degree global average temperature scenario.and the problem with these extremes, and not just the temperature extremes, but also the extremes in terms of storms and other climate impacts, is our infrastructure is just not set up to deal with these sorts of events. so our roads and our rail networks have been designed to last for a long time and withstand only certain amounts of impacts in different parts of the world. and this is going to be extremely challenged. our power stations are expected to be cooled by water to a certain temperature to remain effective and resilient. and our buildings are designed to be comfortable within a particular temperature range. and this is all going to be significantly challenged under a four-degree-type scenario. our infrastructure has not been designed to cope with this.so if we go back, also thinking about four degrees, it's not just the direct impacts, but also some indirect impacts. so if we take food security, for example. maize and wheat yields in some parts of the world are expected to be up to 40 percent lower under a four-degree scenario, rice up to 30 percent lower. this will be absolutely devastating for global food security. so all in all, the kinds of impacts anticipated under this four-degree centigrade scenario are going to be incompatible with global organized living.so back to our trajectories and our graphs of four degrees and two degrees. is it reasonable still to focus on the two-degree path? there are quite a lot of my colleagues and other scientists who would say that it's now too late to avoid a two-degree warming. but i would just like to draw on my own research on energy systems, on food systems, aviation and also shipping, just to say that i think there is still a small fighting chance of avoiding this two-degree dangerous climate change. but we really need to get to grips with the numbers to work out how to do it.so if you focus in on this trajectory and these graphs, the yellow circle there highlights that the departure from the red four-degree pathway to the two-degree green pathway is immediate. and that's because of cumulative emissions, or the carbon budget. so in other words, because of the lights and the projectors that are on in this room right now, the co2 that is going into our atmosphere as a result of that electricity consumption lasts a very long time. some of it will be in our atmosphere for a century, maybe much longer. it will accumulate, and greenhouse gases tend to be cumulative. and that tells us something about these trajectories. first of all, it tells us that it's the area under these curves that matter, not where we reach at a particular date in future. and that's important, because it doesn't matter if we come up with some amazing whiz-bang technology to sort out our energy problem on the last day of 2049, just in the nick of time to sort things out. because in the meantime, emissions will have accumulated. so if we continue on this red, four-degree centigrade scenario pathway, the longer we continue on it, that will need to be made up for in later years to keep the same carbon budget, to keep the same area under the curve, which means that that trajectory, the red one there, becomes steeper. so in other words, if we don't reduce emissions in the short to medium term, then we'll have to make more significant year-on-year emission reductions. we also know that we have to decarbonize our energy system. but if we don't start to cut emissions in the short to medium term, then we will have to do that even sooner. so this poses really big challenges for us.the other thing it does is tells us something about energy policy. if you live in a part of the world where per capita emissions are already high, it points us towards reducing energy demand. and that's because with all the will in the world, the large-scale engineering infrastructure that we need to roll out rapidly to decarbonize the supply side of our energy system is just simply not going to happen in time. so it doesn't matter whether we choose nuclear power or carbon capture and storage, upscale our biofuel production, or go for a much bigger roll-out of wind turbines and wave turbines. all of that will take time. so because it's the area under the curve that matters, we need to focus on energy efficiency, but also on energy conservation — in other words, using less energy. and if we do that, that also means that as we continue to roll out the supply-side technology, we will have less of a job to do if we've actually managed to reduce our energy consumption, because we will then need less infrastructure on the supply side.another issue that we really need to grapple with is the issue of well-being and equity. there are many parts of the world where the standard of living needs to rise. bbut with energy systems currently reliant on fossil fuel, as those economies grow so will emissions. and now, if we're all constrained by the same amount of carbon budget, that means that if some parts of the world's emissions are needing to rise, then other parts of the world's emissions need to reduce.so that poses very significant challenges for wealthy nations. because according to our research, if you're in a country where per capita emissions are really high — so north america, europe, australia — emissions reductions of the order of 10 percent per year, and starting immediately, will be required for a good chance of avoiding the two-degree target. let me just put that into context. the economist nicholas stern said that emission reductions of more than one percent per year had only ever been associated with economic recession or upheaval. so this poses huge challenges for the issue of economic growth, because if we have our high carbon infrastructure in place, it means that if our economies grow, then so do our emissions. so i'd just like to take a quote from a paper by myself and kevin anderson back in 2011 where we said that to avoid the two-degree framing of dangerous climate change, economic growth needs to be exchanged at least temporarily for a period of planned austerity in wealthy nations.this is a really difficult message to take, because what it suggests is that we really need to do things differently. this is not about just incremental change. this is about doing things differently, about whole system change, and sometimes it's about doing less things. and this applies to all of us, whatever sphere of influence we have. so it could be from writing to our local politician to talking to our boss at work or being the boss at work, or talking with our friends and family, or, quite simply, changing our lifestyles. because we really need to make significant change. at the moment, we're choosing a four-degree scenario. if we really want to avoid the two-degree scenario, there really is no time like the present to act.thank you. bruno giussani: alice, basically what you're saying, the talk is, unless wealthy nations start cutting 10 percent per year the emissions now, this year, not in 2020 or '25, we are going to go straight to the four-plus-degree scenario. i am wondering what's your take on the cut by 70 percent for 2070.alice bows-larkin: yeah, it's just nowhere near enough to avoid two degrees. one of the things that often — when there are these modeling studies that look at what we need to do, is they tend to hugely overestimate how quickly other countries in the world can start to reduce emissions. so they make kind of heroic assumptions about that. the more we do that, because it's the cumulative emissions, the short-term stuff that really matters. so it does make a huge difference. if a big country like china, for example, continues to grow even for just a few extra years, that will make a big difference to when we need to decarbonize. so i don't think we can even say when it will be, because it all depends on what we have to do in the short term. but i think we've just got huge scope, and we don't pull those levers that allow us to reduce the energy demand, which is a shame.bg: alice, thank you for coming to ted and sharing this data.abl: thank you. <title = "Soon we'll cure diseases with a cell, not a pill">
<tags = "['TED Books', 'cancer', 'disease', 'future', 'health', 'health care', 'history', 'illness', 'innovation', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'microbes', 'microbiology', 'molecular biology', 'pharmaceuticals', 'physiology', 'psychology', 'science', 'synthetic biology']">
<occupation = "Cancer physician and writer">
i want to talk to you about the future of medicine. but before i do that, i want to talk a little bit about the past. now, throughout much of the recent history of medicine, we've thought about illness and treatment in terms of a profoundly simple model. in fact, the model is so simple that you could summarize it in six words: have disease, take pill, kill something.now, the reason for the dominance of this model is of course the antibiotic revolution. many of you might not know this, but we happen to be celebrating the hundredth year of the introduction of antibiotics into the united states. but what you do know is that that introduction was nothing short of transformative. here you had a chemical, either from the natural world or artificially synthesized in the laboratory, and it would course through your body, it would find its target, lock into its target — a microbe or some part of a microbe — and then turn off a lock and a key with exquisite deftness, exquisite specificity. and you would end up taking a previously fatal, lethal disease — a pneumonia, syphilis, tuberculosis — and transforming that into a curable, or treatable illness. you have a pneumonia, you take penicillin, you kill the microbe and you cure the disease.so seductive was this idea, so potent the metaphor of lock and key and killing something, that it really swept through biology. it was a transformation like no other. and we've really spent the last 100 years trying to replicate that model over and over again in noninfectious diseases, in chronic diseases like diabetes and hypertension and heart disease. and it's worked, but it's only worked partly. let me show you. you know, if you take the entire universe of all chemical reactions in the human body, every chemical reaction that your body is capable of, most people think that that number is on the order of a million. let's call it a million. and now you ask the question, what number or fraction of reactions can actually be targeted by the entire pharmacopoeia, all of medicinal chemistry? that number is 250. the rest is chemical darkness. in other words, 0.025 percent of all chemical reactions in your body are actually targetable by this lock and key mechanism. you know, if you think about human physiology as a vast global telephone network with interacting nodes and interacting pieces, then all of our medicinal chemistry is operating on one tiny corner at the edge, the outer edge, of that network. it's like all of our pharmaceutical chemistry is a pole operator in wichita, kansas who is tinkering with about 10 or 15 telephone lines.so what do we do about this idea? what if we reorganized this approach? in fact, it turns out that the natural world gives us a sense of how one might think about illness in a radically different way, rather than disease, medicine, target. in fact, the natural world is organized hierarchically upwards, not downwards, but upwards, and we begin with a self-regulating, semi-autonomous unit called a cell. these self-regulating, semi-autonomous units give rise to self-regulating, semi-autonomous units called organs, and these organs coalesce to form things called humans, and these organisms ultimately live in environments, which are partly self-regulating and partly semi-autonomous.what's nice about this scheme, this hierarchical scheme building upwards rather than downwards, is that it allows us to think about illness as well in a somewhat different way. take a disease like cancer. since the 1950s, we've tried rather desperately to apply this lock and key model to cancer. we've tried to kill cells using a variety of chemotherapies or targeted therapies, and as most of us know, that's worked. it's worked for diseases like leukemia. it's worked for some forms of breast cancer, but eventually you run to the ceiling of that approach. and it's only in the last 10 years or so that we've begun to think about using the immune system, remembering that in fact the cancer cell doesn't grow in a vacuum. it actually grows in a human organism. and could you use the organismal capacity, the fact that human beings have an immune system, to attack cancer? in fact, it's led to the some of the most spectacular new medicines in cancer.and finally there's the level of the environment, isn't there? you know, we don't think of cancer as altering the environment. but let me give you an example of a profoundly carcinogenic environment. it's called a prison. you take loneliness, you take depression, you take confinement, and you add to that, rolled up in a little white sheet of paper, one of the most potent neurostimulants that we know, called nicotine, and you add to that one of the most potent addictive substances that you know, and you have a pro-carcinogenic environment. but you can have anti-carcinogenic environments too. there are attempts to create milieus, change the hormonal milieu for breast cancer, for instance. we're trying to change the metabolic milieu for other forms of cancer.or take another disease, like depression. again, working upwards, since the 1960s and 1970s, we've tried, again, desperately to turn off molecules that operate between nerve cells — serotonin, dopamine — and tried to cure depression that way, and that's worked, but then that reached the limit. and we now know that what you really probably need to do is to change the physiology of the organ, the brain, rewire it, remodel it, and that, of course, we know study upon study has shown that talk therapy does exactly that, and study upon study has shown that talk therapy combined with medicines, pills, really is much more effective than either one alone. can we imagine a more immersive environment that will change depression? can you lock out the signals that elicit depression? again, moving upwards along this hierarchical chain of organization. what's really at stake perhaps here is not the medicine itself but a metaphor. rather than killing something, in the case of the great chronic degenerative diseases — kidney failure, diabetes, hypertension, osteoarthritis — maybe what we really need to do is change the metaphor to growing something. and that's the key, perhaps, to reframing our thinking about medicine.now, this idea of changing, of creating a perceptual shift, as it were, came home to me to roost in a very personal manner about 10 years ago. about 10 years ago — i've been a runner most of my life — i went for a run, a saturday morning run, i came back and woke up and i basically couldn't move. my right knee was swollen up, and you could hear that ominous crunch of bone against bone. and one of the perks of being a physician is that you get to order your own mris. and i had an mri the next week, and it looked like that. essentially, the meniscus of cartilage that is between bone had been completely torn and the bone itself had been shattered.now, if you're looking at me and feeling sorry, let me tell you a few facts. if i was to take an mri of every person in this audience, 60 percent of you would show signs of bone degeneration and cartilage degeneration like this. 85 percent of all women by the age of 70 would show moderate to severe cartilage degeneration. 50 to 60 percent of the men in this audience would also have such signs. so this is a very common disease. well, the second perk of being a physician is that you can get to experiment on your own ailments. so about 10 years ago we began, we brought this process into the laboratory, and we began to do simple experiments, mechanically trying to fix this degeneration. we tried to inject chemicals into the knee spaces of animals to try to reverse cartilage degeneration, and to put a short summary on a very long and painful process, essentially it came to naught. nothing happened. and then about seven years ago, we had a research student from australia. the nice thing about australians is that they're habitually used to looking at the world upside down. and so dan suggested to me, "you know, maybe it isn't a mechanical problem. maybe it isn't a chemical problem. maybe it's a stem cell problem." in other words, he had two hypotheses. number one, there is such a thing as a skeletal stem cell — a skeletal stem cell that builds up the entire vertebrate skeleton, bone, cartilage and the fibrous elements of skeleton, just like there's a stem cell in blood, just like there's a stem cell in the nervous system. and two, that maybe that, the degeneration or dysfunction of this stem cell is what's causing osteochondral arthritis, a very common ailment. so really the question was, were we looking for a pill when we should have really been looking for a cell. so we switched our models, and now we began to look for skeletal stem cells. and to cut again a long story short, about five years ago, we found these cells. they live inside the skeleton. here's a schematic and then a real photograph of one of them. the white stuff is bone, and these red columns that you see and the yellow cells are cells that have arisen from one single skeletal stem cell — columns of cartilage, columns of bone coming out of a single cell. these cells are fascinating. they have four properties. number one is that they live where they're expected to live. they live just underneath the surface of the bone, underneath cartilage. you know, in biology, it's location, location, location. and they move into the appropriate areas and form bone and cartilage. that's one. here's an interesting property. you can take them out of the vertebrate skeleton, you can culture them in petri dishes in the laboratory, and they are dying to form cartilage. remember how we couldn't form cartilage for love or money? these cells are dying to form cartilage. they form their own furls of cartilage around themselves. they're also, number three, the most efficient repairers of fractures that we've ever encountered. this is a little bone, a mouse bone that we fractured and then let it heal by itself. these stem cells have come in and repaired, in yellow, the bone, in white, the cartilage, almost completely. so much so that if you label them with a fluorescent dye you can see them like some kind of peculiar cellular glue coming into the area of a fracture, fixing it locally and then stopping their work. now, the fourth one is the most ominous, and that is that their numbers decline precipitously, precipitously, tenfold, fiftyfold, as you age.and so what had happened, really, is that we found ourselves in a perceptual shift. we had gone hunting for pills but we ended up finding theories. and in some ways we had hooked ourselves back onto this idea: cells, organisms, environments, because we were now thinking about bone stem cells, we were thinking about arthritis in terms of a cellular disease.and then the next question was, are there organs? can you build this as an organ outside the body? can you implant cartilage into areas of trauma? and perhaps most interestingly, can you ascend right up and create environments? you know, we know that exercise remodels bone, but come on, none of us is going to exercise. so could you imagine ways of passively loading and unloading bone so that you can recreate or regenerate degenerating cartilage?and perhaps more interesting, and more importantly, the question is, can you apply this model more globally outside medicine? what's at stake, as i said before, is not killing something, but growing something. and it raises a series of, i think, some of the most interesting questions about how we think about medicine in the future. could your medicine be a cell and not a pill? how would we grow these cells? what we would we do to stop the malignant growth of these cells? we heard about the problems of unleashing growth. could we implant suicide genes into these cells to stop them from growing? could your medicine be an organ that's created outside the body and then implanted into the body? could that stop some of the degeneration? what if the organ needed to have memory? in cases of diseases of the nervous system some of those organs had memory. how could we implant those memories back in? could we store these organs? would each organ have to be developed for an individual human being and put back? and perhaps most puzzlingly, could your medicine be an environment? could you patent an environment? you know, in every culture, shamans have been using environments as medicines. could we imagine that for our future? i've talked a lot about models. i began this talk with models. so let me end with some thoughts about model building. that's what we do as scientists. you know, when an architect builds a model, he or she is trying to show you a world in miniature. but when a scientist is building a model, he or she is trying to show you the world in metaphor. he or she is trying to create a new way of seeing. the former is a scale shift. the latter is a perceptual shift.now, antibiotics created such a perceptual shift in our way of thinking about medicine that it really colored, distorted, very successfully, the way we've thought about medicine for the last hundred years. but we need new models to think about medicine in the future. that's what's at stake.you know, there's a popular trope out there that the reason we haven't had the transformative impact on the treatment of illness is because we don't have powerful-enough drugs, and that's partly true. but perhaps the real reason is that we don't have powerful-enough ways of thinking about medicines. it's certainly true that it would be lovely to have new medicines. but perhaps what's really at stake are three more intangible m's: mechanisms, models, metaphors.thank you. chris anderson: i really like this metaphor. how does it link in? there's a lot of talk in technologyland about the personalization of medicine, that we have all this data and that medical treatments of the future will be for you specifically, your genome, your current context. does that apply to this model you've got here?siddhartha mukherjee: it's a very interesting question. we've thought about personalization of medicine very much in terms of genomics. that's because the gene is such a dominant metaphor, again, to use that same word, in medicine today, that we think the genome will drive the personalization of medicine. but of course the genome is just the bottom of a long chain of being, as it were. that chain of being, really the first organized unit of that, is the cell. so, if we are really going to deliver in medicine in this way, we have to think of personalizing cellular therapies, and then personalizing organ or organismal therapies, and ultimately personalizing immersion therapies for the environment. so i think at every stage, you know — there's that metaphor, there's turtles all the way. well, in this, there's personalization all the way.ca: so when you say medicine could be a cell and not a pill, you're talking about potentially your own cells.sm: absolutely. ca: so converted to stem cells, perhaps tested against all kinds of drugs or something, and prepared.sm: and there's no perhaps. this is what we're doing. this is what's happening, and in fact, we're slowly moving, not away from genomics, but incorporating genomics into what we call multi-order, semi-autonomous, self-regulating systems, like cells, like organs, like environments.ca: thank you so much.sm: pleasure. thanks.<title = "Design at the intersection of technology and biology">
<tags = "['architecture', 'biology', 'design', 'innovation', 'manufacturing', 'materials', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'product design', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Architect, designer">
two twin domes, two radically opposed design cultures. one is made of thousands of steel parts, the other of a single silk thread. one is synthetic, the other organic. one is imposed on the environment, the other creates it. one is designed for nature, the other is designed by her.michelangelo said that when he looked at raw marble, he saw a figure struggling to be free. the chisel was michelangelo's only tool. but living things are not chiseled. they grow. and in our smallest units of life, our cells, we carry all the information that's required for every other cell to function and to replicate.tools also have consequences. at least since the industrial revolution, the world of design has been dominated by the rigors of manufacturing and mass production. assembly lines have dictated a world made of parts, framing the imagination of designers and architects who have been trained to think about their objects as assemblies of discrete parts with distinct functions.but you don't find homogenous material assemblies in nature. take human skin, for example. our facial skins are thin with large pores. our back skins are thicker, with small pores. one acts mainly as filter, the other mainly as barrier, and yet it's the same skin: no parts, no assemblies. it's a system that gradually varies its functionality by varying elasticity. so here this is a split screen to represent my split world view, the split personality of every designer and architect operating today between the chisel and the gene, between machine and organism, between assembly and growth, between henry ford and charles darwin. these two worldviews, my left brain and right brain, analysis and synthesis, will play out on the two screens behind me. my work, at its simplest level, is about uniting these two worldviews, moving away from assembly and closer into growth.you're probably asking yourselves: why now? why was this not possible 10 or even five years ago? we live in a very special time in history, a rare time, a time when the confluence of four fields is giving designers access to tools we've never had access to before. these fields are computational design, allowing us to design complex forms with simple code; additive manufacturing, letting us produce parts by adding material rather than carving it out; materials engineering, which lets us design the behavior of materials in high resolution; and synthetic biology, enabling us to design new biological functionality by editing dna. and at the intersection of these four fields, my team and i create. please meet the minds and hands of my students.we design objects and products and structures and tools across scales, from the large-scale, like this robotic arm with an 80-foot diameter reach with a vehicular base that will one day soon print entire buildings, to nanoscale graphics made entirely of genetically engineered microorganisms that glow in the dark. here we've reimagined the mashrabiya, an archetype of ancient arabic architecture, and created a screen where every aperture is uniquely sized to shape the form of light and heat moving through it.in our next project, we explore the possibility of creating a cape and skirt — this was for a paris fashion show with iris van herpen — like a second skin that are made of a single part, stiff at the contours, flexible around the waist. together with my long-term 3d printing collaborator stratasys, we 3d-printed this cape and skirt with no seams between the cells, and i'll show more objects like it. this helmet combines stiff and soft materials in 20-micron resolution. this is the resolution of a human hair. it's also the resolution of a ct scanner. that designers have access to such high-resolution analytic and synthetic tools, enables to design products that fit not only the shape of our bodies, but also the physiological makeup of our tissues. next, we designed an acoustic chair, a chair that would be at once structural, comfortable and would also absorb sound. professor carter, my collaborator, and i turned to nature for inspiration, and by designing this irregular surface pattern, it becomes sound-absorbent. we printed its surface out of 44 different properties, varying in rigidity, opacity and color, corresponding to pressure points on the human body. its surface, as in nature, varies its functionality not by adding another material or another assembly, but by continuously and delicately varying material property.but is nature ideal? are there no parts in nature? i wasn't raised in a religious jewish home, but when i was young, my grandmother used to tell me stories from the hebrew bible, and one of them stuck with me and came to define much of what i care about. as she recounts: "on the third day of creation, god commands the earth to grow a fruit-bearing fruit tree." for this first fruit tree, there was to be no differentiation between trunk, branches, leaves and fruit. the whole tree was a fruit. instead, the land grew trees that have bark and stems and flowers. the land created a world made of parts. i often ask myself, "what would design be like if objects were made of a single part? would we return to a better state of creation?"so we looked for that biblical material, that fruit-bearing fruit tree kind of material, and we found it. the second-most abundant biopolymer on the planet is called chitin, and some 100 million tons of it are produced every year by organisms such as shrimps, crabs, scorpions and butterflies. we thought if we could tune its properties, we could generate structures that are multifunctional out of a single part. so that's what we did. we called legal seafood — we ordered a bunch of shrimp shells, we grinded them and we produced chitosan paste. by varying chemical concentrations, we were able to achieve a wide array of properties — from dark, stiff and opaque, to light, soft and transparent. in order to print the structures in large scale, we built a robotically controlled extrusion system with multiple nozzles. the robot would vary material properties on the fly and create these 12-foot-long structures made of a single material, 100 percent recyclable. when the parts are ready, they're left to dry and find a form naturally upon contact with air. so why are we still designing with plastics? the air bubbles that were a byproduct of the printing process were used to contain photosynthetic microorganisms that first appeared on our planet 3.5 billion year ago, as we learned yesterday. together with our collaborators at harvard and mit, we embedded bacteria that were genetically engineered to rapidly capture carbon from the atmosphere and convert it into sugar. for the first time, we were able to generate structures that would seamlessly transition from beam to mesh, and if scaled even larger, to windows. a fruit-bearing fruit tree. working with an ancient material, one of the first lifeforms on the planet, plenty of water and a little bit of synthetic biology, we were able to transform a structure made of shrimp shells into an architecture that behaves like a tree. and here's the best part: for objects designed to biodegrade, put them in the sea, and they will nourish marine life; place them in soil, and they will help grow a tree.the setting for our next exploration using the same design principles was the solar system. we looked for the possibility of creating life-sustaining clothing for interplanetary voyages. to do that, we needed to contain bacteria and be able to control their flow. so like the periodic table, we came up with our own table of the elements: new lifeforms that were computationally grown, additively manufactured and biologically augmented. i like to think of synthetic biology as liquid alchemy, only instead of transmuting precious metals, you're synthesizing new biological functionality inside very small channels. it's called microfluidics. we 3d-printed our own channels in order to control the flow of these liquid bacterial cultures. in our first piece of clothing, we combined two microorganisms. the first is cyanobacteria. it lives in our oceans and in freshwater ponds. and the second, e. coli, the bacterium that inhabits the human gut. one converts light into sugar, the other consumes that sugar and produces biofuels useful for the built environment. now, these two microorganisms never interact in nature. in fact, they never met each other. they've been here, engineered for the first time, to have a relationship inside a piece of clothing. think of it as evolution not by natural selection, but evolution by design. in order to contain these relationships, we've created a single channel that resembles the digestive tract, that will help flow these bacteria and alter their function along the way. we then started growing these channels on the human body, varying material properties according to the desired functionality. where we wanted more photosynthesis, we would design more transparent channels. this wearable digestive system, when it's stretched end to end, spans 60 meters. this is half the length of a football field, and 10 times as long as our small intestines. and here it is for the first time unveiled at ted — our first photosynthetic wearable, liquid channels glowing with life inside a wearable clothing. thank you.mary shelley said, "we are unfashioned creatures, but only half made up." what if design could provide that other half? what if we could create structures that would augment living matter? what if we could create personal microbiomes that would scan our skins, repair damaged tissue and sustain our bodies? think of this as a form of edited biology. this entire collection, wanderers, that was named after planets, was not to me really about fashion per se, but it provided an opportunity to speculate about the future of our race on our planet and beyond, to combine scientific insight with lots of mystery and to move away from the age of the machine to a new age of symbiosis between our bodies, the microorganisms that we inhabit, our products and even our buildings. i call this material ecology.to do this, we always need to return back to nature. by now, you know that a 3d printer prints material in layers. you also know that nature doesn't. it grows. it adds with sophistication. this silkworm cocoon, for example, creates a highly sophisticated architecture, a home inside which to metamorphisize. no additive manufacturing today gets even close to this level of sophistication. it does so by combining not two materials, but two proteins in different concentrations. one acts as the structure, the other is the glue, or the matrix, holding those fibers together. and this happens across scales. the silkworm first attaches itself to the environment — it creates a tensile structure — and it then starts spinning a compressive cocoon. tension and compression, the two forces of life, manifested in a single material.in order to better understand how this complex process works, we glued a tiny earth magnet to the head of a silkworm, to the spinneret. we placed it inside a box with magnetic sensors, and that allowed us to create this 3-dimensional point cloud and visualize the complex architecture of the silkworm cocoon. however, when we placed the silkworm on a flat patch, not inside a box, we realized it would spin a flat cocoon and it would still healthily metamorphisize. so we started designing different environments, different scaffolds, and we discovered that the shape, the composition, the structure of the cocoon, was directly informed by the environment.silkworms are often boiled to death inside their cocoons, their silk unraveled and used in the textile industry. we realized that designing these templates allowed us to give shape to raw silk without boiling a single cocoon. they would healthily metamorphisize, and we would be able to create these things.so we scaled this process up to architectural scale. we had a robot spin the template out of silk, and we placed it on our site. we knew silkworms migrated toward darker and colder areas, so we used a sun path diagram to reveal the distribution of light and heat on our structure. we then created holes, or apertures, that would lock in the rays of light and heat, distributing those silkworms on the structure.we were ready to receive the caterpillars. we ordered 6,500 silkworms from an online silk farm. and after four weeks of feeding, they were ready to spin with us. we placed them carefully at the bottom rim of the scaffold, and as they spin they pupate, they mate, they lay eggs, and life begins all over again — just like us but much, much shorter.bucky fuller said that tension is the great integrity, and he was right. as they spin biological silk over robotically spun silk, they give this entire pavilion its integrity. and over two to three weeks, 6,500 silkworms spin 6,500 kilometers. in a curious symmetry, this is also the length of the silk road. the moths, after they hatch, produce 1.5 million eggs. this could be used for 250 additional pavilions for the future.so here they are, the two worldviews. one spins silk out of a robotic arm, the other fills in the gaps.if the final frontier of design is to breathe life into the products and the buildings around us, to form a two-material ecology, then designers must unite these two worldviews. which brings us back, of course, to the beginning. here's to a new age of design, a new age of creation, that takes us from a nature-inspired design to a design-inspired nature, and that demands of us for the first time that we mother nature.thank you. thank you very much. thank you. <title = "You can grow new brain cells. Here's how">
<tags = "['aging', 'biology', 'brain', 'health', 'medical research', 'memory', 'mental health', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'science']">
<occupation = "Neural stem cell researcher">
can we, as adults, grow new nerve cells? there's still some confusion about that question, as this is a fairly new field of research. for example, i was talking to one of my colleagues, robert, who is an oncologist, and he was telling me, "sandrine, this is puzzling. some of my patients that have been told they are cured of their cancer still develop symptoms of depression." and i responded to him, "well, from my point of view that makes sense. the drug you give to your patients that stops the cancer cells multiplying also stops the newborn neurons being generated in their brain." and then robert looked at me like i was crazy and said, "but sandrine, these are adult patients — adults do not grow new nerve cells." and much to his surprise, i said, "well actually, we do." and this is a phenomenon that we call neurogenesis.[neurogenesis]now robert is not a neuroscientist, and when he went to medical school he was not taught what we know now — that the adult brain can generate new nerve cells. so robert, you know, being the good doctor that he is, wanted to come to my lab to understand the topic a little bit better. and i took him for a tour of one of the most exciting parts of the brain when it comes to neurogenesis — and this is the hippocampus. so this is this gray structure in the center of the brain. and what we've known already for very long, is that this is important for learning, memory, mood and emotion. however, what we have learned more recently is that this is one of the unique structures of the adult brain where new neurons can be generated. and if we slice through the hippocampus and zoom in, what you actually see here in blue is a newborn neuron in an adult mouse brain. so when it comes to the human brain — my colleague jonas frisén from the karolinska institutet, has estimated that we produce 700 new neurons per day in the hippocampus. you might think this is not much, compared to the billions of neurons we have. but by the time we turn 50, we will have all exchanged the neurons we were born with in that structure with adult-born neurons.so why are these new neurons important and what are their functions? first, we know that they're important for learning and memory. and in the lab we have shown that if we block the ability of the adult brain to produce new neurons in the hippocampus, then we block certain memory abilities. and this is especially new and true for spatial recognition — so like, how you navigate your way in the city.we are still learning a lot, and neurons are not only important for memory capacity, but also for the quality of the memory. and they will have been helpful to add time to our memory and they will help differentiate very similar memories, like: how do you find your bike that you park at the station every day in the same area, but in a slightly different position?and more interesting to my colleague robert is the research we have been doing on neurogenesis and depression. so in an animal model of depression, we have seen that we have a lower level of neurogenesis. and if we give antidepressants, then we increase the production of these newborn neurons, and we decrease the symptoms of depression, establishing a clear link between neurogenesis and depression. but moreover, if you just block neurogenesis, then you block the efficacy of the antidepressant. so by then, robert had understood that very likely his patients were suffering from depression even after being cured of their cancer, because the cancer drug had stopped newborn neurons from being generated. and it will take time to generate new neurons that reach normal functions.so, collectively, now we think we have enough evidence to say that neurogenesis is a target of choice if we want to improve memory formation or mood, or even prevent the decline associated with aging, or associated with stress.so the next question is: can we control neurogenesis? the answer is yes. and we are now going to do a little quiz. i'm going to give you a set of behaviors and activities, and you tell me if you think they will increase neurogenesis or if they will decrease neurogenesis. are we ready? ok, let's go.so what about learning? increasing? yes. learning will increase the production of these new neurons.how about stress? yes, stress will decrease the production of new neurons in the hippocampus.how about sleep deprivation? indeed, it will decrease neurogenesis.how about sex? oh, wow! yes, you are right, it will increase the production of new neurons. however, it's all about balance here. we don't want to fall in a situation — about too much sex leading to sleep deprivation. how about getting older? so the neurogenesis rate will decrease as we get older, but it is still occurring.and then finally, how about running? i will let you judge that one by yourself.so this is one of the first studies that was carried out by one of my mentors, rusty gage from the salk institute, showing that the environment can have an impact on the production of new neurons. and here you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse that had no running wheel in its cage. and the little black dots you see are actually newborn neurons-to-be. and now, you see a section of the hippocampus of a mouse that had a running wheel in its cage. so you see the massive increase of the black dots representing the new neurons-to-be.so activity impacts neurogenesis, but that's not all. what you eat will have an effect on the production of new neurons in the hippocampus. so here we have a sample of diet — of nutrients that have been shown to have efficacy. and i'm just going to point a few out to you: calorie restriction of 20 to 30 percent will increase neurogenesis. intermittent fasting — spacing the time between your meals — will increase neurogenesis. intake of flavonoids, which are contained in dark chocolate or blueberries, will increase neurogenesis. omega-3 fatty acids, present in fatty fish, like salmon, will increase the production of these new neurons. conversely, a diet rich in high saturated fat will have a negative impact on neurogenesis. ethanol — intake of alcohol — will decrease neurogenesis. however, not everything is lost; resveratrol, which is contained in red wine, has been shown to promote the survival of these new neurons. so next time you are at a dinner party, you might want to reach for this possibly "neurogenesis-neutral" drink. and then finally, let me point out the last one — a quirky one. so japanese groups are fascinated with food textures, and they have shown that actually soft diet impairs neurogenesis, as opposed to food that requires mastication — chewing — or crunchy food.so all of this data, where we need to look at the cellular level, has been generated using animal models. but this diet has also been given to human participants, and what we could see is that the diet modulates memory and mood in the same direction as it modulates neurogenesis, such as: calorie restriction will improve memory capacity, whereas a high-fat diet will exacerbate symptoms of depression — as opposed to omega-3 fatty acids, which increase neurogenesis, and also help to decrease the symptoms of depression. so we think that the effect of diet on mental health, on memory and mood, is actually mediated by the production of the new neurons in the hippocampus. and it's not only what you eat, but it's also the texture of the food, when you eat it and how much of it you eat.on our side — neuroscientists interested in neurogenesis — we need to understand better the function of these new neurons, and how we can control their survival and their production. we also need to find a way to protect the neurogenesis of robert's patients. and on your side — i leave you in charge of your neurogenesis.thank you. margaret heffernan: fantastic research, sandrine. now, i told you you changed my life — i now eat a lot of blueberries.sandrine thuret: very good.mh: i'm really interested in the running thing. do i have to run? or is it really just about aerobic exercise, getting oxygen to the brain? could it be any kind of vigorous exercise?st: so for the moment, we can't really say if it's just the running itself, but we think that anything that indeed will increase the production — or moving the blood flow to the brain, should be beneficial.mh: so i don't have to get a running wheel in my office?st: no, you don't!mh: oh, what a relief! that's wonderful. sandrine thuret, thank you so much.st: thank you, margaret. <title = "Home is a song I've always remembered">
<tags = "['guitar', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'piano']">
<occupation = "Singer-songwriter">
(guitar music)i was just thinking that i have been missing you way too longthere's something inside this weary headthat wants us to love just insteadbut i was just thinking, merely thinkingi've got loads of pictures,i've got the one of you in that dancing dressbut man i feel silly in that dim lightjust after doing you by the sight of my kodak delights,i am sinking, merely sinkingi think about long distance rates instead of kissing you babei'm a singer without a songif i wait for you longermy affection is strongerand i ... i was just thinking, merely thinkingthat this boat is sinkingi'm tired of postcards, especially the ones with cute dogs and cupidsi'm tired of calling you and missing you and dreaming i slept with youdon't get me wrong i still desperately love youinside this weary headi just want us to love just insteadbut i was just thinking and thinking, merely thinkingi think about long distance rates instead of kissing you babeand time is running me stillif i wait for you longermy affection is strongeri ... i was just thinkingi ... i was just thinkingthat i'm tired of calling you once a weekthinking of long distance rates instead of kissing youso baby i'm sinking,merely sinking(guitar music ends) thank you.singing is sharing. when you sing, you have to know what you're talking about intimately, and you have to be willing to share this insight and give away a piece of yourself. i look for this intention to share in everything, and i ask: what are the intentions behind this architecture or this product or this restaurant or this meal? and if your intentions are to impress people or to get the big applause at the end, then you are taking, not giving.and this is a song that's about — it's the kind of song that everyone has their version of. this song is called "home," and it's sort of a "this is where i'm from, nice to meet you all," kind of song. (piano music)home is the sound of birds early in the morninghome is a song i've always rememberedhome is the memory of my first day in schoolhome is the books that i carry aroundhome is an alley in a faraway townhome is the places i’ve been and where i’d like to gohomei'm always gonna feel at homeno matter where i may roami'm always gonna find my way back homeno matter how far i’m gonei’m always gonna feel this longingno matter where i might stayhome is a feather twirling in the airhome is flowers in a windowsillhome is all the things she said to mehome is a photo i never threw awayhome is the smile on my face when i diehome is the taste of an apple piei met a woman, she always lived in the same placeand she said home is where you’re born and raisedand i met a man, he sat looking out to the seaand he said home is where you want to bei met a girl in some downtown barand she said i'll have whatever he's havingand i asked her how come we never met before?and she said all my life i’ve been tryingto get a place of my owni’m always gonna feel at homeno matter where i may roamalways gonna find my way back homeno matter how far i’m gonei'm always gonna feel this longingno matter where i might stay(piano music)(piano music ends) <title = "How we can make the world a better place by 2030">
<tags = "['big problems', 'economics', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'goal-setting', 'policy', 'statistics']">
<occupation = "Social progress expert">
do you think the world is going to be a better place next year? in the next decade? can we end hunger, achieve gender equality, halt climate change, all in the next 15 years?well, according to the governments of the world, yes we can. in the last few days, the leaders of the world, meeting at the un in new york, agreed a new set of global goals for the development of the world to 2030. and here they are: these goals are the product of a massive consultation exercise. the global goals are who we, humanity, want to be.now that's the plan, but can we get there? can this vision for a better world really be achieved? well, i'm here today because we've run the numbers, and the answer, shockingly, is that maybe we actually can. but not with business as usual.now, the idea that the world is going to get a better place may seem a little fanciful. watch the news every day and the world seems to be going backwards, not forwards. and let's be frank: it's pretty easy to be skeptical about grand announcements coming out of the un.but please, i invite you to suspend your disbelief for just a moment. because back in 2001, the un agreed another set of goals, the millennium development goals. and the flagship target there was to halve the proportion of people living in poverty by 2015. the target was to take from a baseline of 1990, when 36 percent of the world's population lived in poverty, to get to 18 percent poverty this year.did we hit this target? well, no, we didn't. we exceeded it. this year, global poverty is going to fall to 12 percent. now, that's still not good enough, and the world does still have plenty of problems. but the pessimists and doomsayers who say that the world can't get better are simply wrong.so how did we achieve this success? well, a lot of it was because of economic growth. some of the biggest reductions in poverty were in countries such as china and india, which have seen rapid economic growth in recent years. so can we pull off the same trick again? can economic growth get us to the global goals? well, to answer that question, we need to benchmark where the world is today against the global goals and figure out how far we have to travel.but that ain't easy, because the global goals aren't just ambitious, they're also pretty complicated. over 17 goals, there are then 169 targets and literally hundreds of indicators. also, while some of the goals are pretty specific — end hunger — others are a lot vaguer — promote peaceful and tolerant societies.so to help us with this benchmarking, i'm going to use a tool called the social progress index. what this does is measures all the stuff the global goals are trying to achieve, but sums it up into a single number that we can use as our benchmark and track progress over time.the social progress index basically asks three fundamental questions about a society. first of all, does everyone have the basic needs of survival: food, water, shelter, safety? secondly, does everyone have the building blocks of a better life: education, information, health and a sustainable environment? and does everyone have the opportunity to improve their lives, through rights, freedom of choice, freedom from discrimination, and access to the world's most advanced knowledge?the social progress index sums all this together using 52 indicators to create an aggregate score on a scale of 0 to 100. and what we find is that there's a wide diversity of performance in the world today. the highest performing country, norway, scores 88. the lowest performing country, central african republic, scores 31. and we can add up all the countries together, weighting for the different population sizes, and that global score is 61. in concrete terms, that means that the average human being is living on a level of social progress about the same of cuba or kazakhstan today.that's where we are today: 61 out of 100. what do we have to get to to achieve the global goals?now, the global goals are certainly ambitious, but they're not about turning the world into norway in just 15 years. so having looked at the numbers, my estimate is that a score of 75 would not only be a giant leap forward in human well-being, it would also count as hitting the global goals target. so there's our target, 75 out of 100. can we get there?well, the social progress index can help us calculate this, because as you might have noticed, there are no economic indicators in there; there's no gdp or economic growth in the social progress index model. and what that lets us do is understand the relationship between economic growth and social progress.let me show you on this chart. so here on the vertical axis, i've put social progress, the stuff the global goals are trying to achieve. higher is better. and then on the horizontal axis, is gdp per capita. further to the right means richer. and in there, i'm now going to put all the countries of the world, each one represented by a dot, and on top of that i'm going to put the regression line that shows the average relationship. and what this tells us is that as we get richer, social progress does tend to improve. however, as we get richer, each extra dollar of gdp is buying us less and less social progress. and now we can use this information to start building our forecast. so here is the world in 2015. we have a social progress score of 61 and a gdp per capita of $14,000. and the place we're trying to get to, remember, is 75, that global goals target. so here we are today, $14,000 per capita gdp. how rich are we going to be in 2030? that's what we need to know next. well, the best forecast we can find comes from the us department of agriculture, which forecasts 3.1 percent average global economic growth over the next 15 years, which means that in 2030, if they're right, per capita gdp will be about $23,000. so now the question is: if we get that much richer, how much social progress are we going to get? well, we asked a team of economists at deloitte who checked and crunched the numbers, and they came back and said, well, look: if the world's average wealth goes from $14,000 a year to $23,000 a year, social progress is going to increase from 61 to 62.4. just 62.4. just a tiny increase.now this seems a bit strange. economic growth seems to have really helped in the fight against poverty, but it doesn't seem to be having much impact on trying to get to the global goals. so what's going on? well, i think there are two things. the first is that in a way, we're the victims of our own success. we've used up the easy wins from economic growth, and now we're moving on to harder problems. and also, we know that economic growth comes with costs as well as benefits. there are costs to the environment, costs from new health problems like obesity.so that's the bad news. we're not going to get to the global goals just by getting richer.so are the pessimists right?well, maybe not. because the social progress index also has some very good news. let me take you back to that regression line. so this is the average relationship between gdp and social progress, and this is what our last forecast was based on. but as you saw already, there is actually lots of noise around this trend line.what that tells us, quite simply, is that gdp is not destiny. we have countries that are underperforming on social progress, relative to their wealth. russia has lots of natural resource wealth, but lots of social problems. china has boomed economically, but hasn't made much headway on human rights or environmental issues. india has a space program and millions of people without toilets. now, on the other hand, we have countries that are overperforming on social progress relative to their gdp. costa rica has prioritized education, health and environmental sustainability, and as a result, it's achieving a very high level of social progress, despite only having a rather modest gdp. and costa rica's not alone. from poor countries like rwanda to richer countries like new zealand, we see that it's possible to get lots of social progress, even if your gdp is not so great.and that's really important, because it tells us two things. first of all, it tells us that we already in the world have the solutions to many of the problems that the global goals are trying to solve. it also tells us that we're not slaves to gdp. our choices matter: if we prioritize the well-being of people, then we can make a lot more progress than our gdp might expect.how much? enough to get us to the global goals? well, let's look at some numbers. what we know already: the world today is scoring 61 on social progress, and the place we want to get to is 75. if we rely on economic growth alone, we're going to get to 62.4. so let's assume now that we can get the countries that are currently underperforming on social progress — the russia, china, indias — just up to the average. how much social progress does that get us? well, that takes us to 65. it's a bit better, but still quite a long way to go. so let's get a little bit more optimistic and say, what if every country gets a little bit better at turning its wealth into well-being? well then, we get to 67. and now let's be even bolder still. what if every country in the world chose to be like costa rica in prioritizing human well-being, using its wealth for the well-being of its citizens? well then, we get to nearly 73, very close to the global goals.can we achieve the global goals? certainly not with business as usual. even a flood tide of economic growth is not going to get us there, if it just raises the mega-yachts and the super-wealthy and leaves the rest behind. if we're going to achieve the global goals we have to do things differently. we have to prioritize social progress, and really scale solutions around the world. i believe the global goals are a historic opportunity, because the world's leaders have promised to deliver them. let's not dismiss the goals or slide into pessimism; let's hold them to that promise. and we need to hold them to that promise by holding them accountable, tracking their progress all the way through the next 15 years.and i want to finish by showing you a way to do that, called the people's report card. the people's report card brings together all this data into a simple framework that we'll all be familiar with from our school days, to hold them to account. it grades our performance on the global goals on a scale from f to a, where f is humanity at its worst, and a is humanity at its best. our world today is scoring a c-. the global goals are all about getting to an a, and that's why we're going to be updating the people's report card annually, for the world and for all the countries of the world, so we can hold our leaders to account to achieve this target and fulfill this promise. because getting to the global goals will only happen if we do things differently, if our leaders do things differently, and for that to happen, that needs us to demand it.so let's reject business as usual. let's demand a different path. let's choose the world that we want.thank you. bruno giussani: thank you, michael. michael, just one question: the millennium development goals established 15 years ago, they were kind of applying to every country but it turned out to be really a scorecard for emerging countries. now the new global goals are explicitly universal. they ask for every country to show action and to show progress. how can i, as a private citizen, use the report card to create pressure for action?michael green: this is a really important point; it's a big shift in priorities — it's no longer about poor countries and just poverty. it's about every country. and every country is going to have challenges in getting to the global goals. even, i'm sorry to say, bruno, switzerland has got to work to do. and so that's why we're going to produce these report cards in 2016 for every country in the world. then we can really see, how are we doing? and it's not going to be rich countries scoring straight a's. and that, then, i think, is to provide a point of focus for people to start demanding action and start demanding progress.bg: thank you very much. <title = "The future of flying robots">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'agriculture', 'bees', 'biomimicry', 'computers', 'demo', 'design', 'drones', 'engineering', 'farming', 'flight', 'garden', 'innovation', 'insects', 'machine learning', 'plants', 'robots', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Roboticist">
in my lab, we build autonomous aerial robots like the one you see flying here. unlike the commercially available drones that you can buy today, this robot doesn't have any gps on board. so without gps, it's hard for robots like this to determine their position. this robot uses onboard sensors, cameras and laser scanners, to scan the environment. it detects features from the environment, and it determines where it is relative to those features, using a method of triangulation. and then it can assemble all these features into a map, like you see behind me. and this map then allows the robot to understand where the obstacles are and navigate in a collision-free manner.what i want to show you next is a set of experiments we did inside our laboratory, where this robot was able to go for longer distances. so here you'll see, on the top right, what the robot sees with the camera. and on the main screen — and of course this is sped up by a factor of four — on the main screen you'll see the map that it's building. so this is a high-resolution map of the corridor around our laboratory. and in a minute you'll see it enter our lab, which is recognizable by the clutter that you see. but the main point i want to convey to you is that these robots are capable of building high-resolution maps at five centimeters resolution, allowing somebody who is outside the lab, or outside the building to deploy these without actually going inside, and trying to infer what happens inside the building.now there's one problem with robots like this. the first problem is it's pretty big. because it's big, it's heavy. and these robots consume about 100 watts per pound. and this makes for a very short mission life. the second problem is that these robots have onboard sensors that end up being very expensive — a laser scanner, a camera and the processors. that drives up the cost of this robot.so we asked ourselves a question: what consumer product can you buy in an electronics store that is inexpensive, that's lightweight, that has sensing onboard and computation? and we invented the flying phone. so this robot uses a samsung galaxy smartphone that you can buy off the shelf, and all you need is an app that you can download from our app store. and you can see this robot reading the letters, "ted" in this case, looking at the corners of the "t" and the "e" and then triangulating off of that, flying autonomously. that joystick is just there to make sure if the robot goes crazy, giuseppe can kill it. in addition to building these small robots, we also experiment with aggressive behaviors, like you see here. so this robot is now traveling at two to three meters per second, pitching and rolling aggressively as it changes direction. the main point is we can have smaller robots that can go faster and then travel in these very unstructured environments.and in this next video, just like you see this bird, an eagle, gracefully coordinating its wings, its eyes and feet to grab prey out of the water, our robot can go fishing, too. in this case, this is a philly cheesesteak hoagie that it's grabbing out of thin air. so you can see this robot going at about three meters per second, which is faster than walking speed, coordinating its arms, its claws and its flight with split-second timing to achieve this maneuver. in another experiment, i want to show you how the robot adapts its flight to control its suspended payload, whose length is actually larger than the width of the window. so in order to accomplish this, it actually has to pitch and adjust the altitude and swing the payload through. but of course we want to make these even smaller, and we're inspired in particular by honeybees. so if you look at honeybees, and this is a slowed down video, they're so small, the inertia is so lightweight — that they don't care — they bounce off my hand, for example. this is a little robot that mimics the honeybee behavior. and smaller is better, because along with the small size you get lower inertia. along with lower inertia —(robot buzzing, laughter)along with lower inertia, you're resistant to collisions. and that makes you more robust. so just like these honeybees, we build small robots. and this particular one is only 25 grams in weight. it consumes only six watts of power. and it can travel up to six meters per second. so if i normalize that to its size, it's like a boeing 787 traveling ten times the speed of sound. and i want to show you an example. this is probably the first planned mid-air collision, at one-twentieth normal speed. these are going at a relative speed of two meters per second, and this illustrates the basic principle. the two-gram carbon fiber cage around it prevents the propellers from entangling, but essentially the collision is absorbed and the robot responds to the collisions. and so small also means safe. in my lab, as we developed these robots, we start off with these big robots and then now we're down to these small robots. and if you plot a histogram of the number of band-aids we've ordered in the past, that sort of tailed off now. because these robots are really safe.the small size has some disadvantages, and nature has found a number of ways to compensate for these disadvantages. the basic idea is they aggregate to form large groups, or swarms. so, similarly, in our lab, we try to create artificial robot swarms. and this is quite challenging because now you have to think about networks of robots. and within each robot, you have to think about the interplay of sensing, communication, computation — and this network then becomes quite difficult to control and manage. so from nature we take away three organizing principles that essentially allow us to develop our algorithms. the first idea is that robots need to be aware of their neighbors. they need to be able to sense and communicate with their neighbors.so this video illustrates the basic idea. you have four robots — one of the robots has actually been hijacked by a human operator, literally. but because the robots interact with each other, they sense their neighbors, they essentially follow. and here there's a single person able to lead this network of followers. so again, it's not because all the robots know where they're supposed to go. it's because they're just reacting to the positions of their neighbors. so the next experiment illustrates the second organizing principle. and this principle has to do with the principle of anonymity. here the key idea is that the robots are agnostic to the identities of their neighbors. they're asked to form a circular shape, and no matter how many robots you introduce into the formation, or how many robots you pull out, each robot is simply reacting to its neighbor. it's aware of the fact that it needs to form the circular shape, but collaborating with its neighbors it forms the shape without central coordination. now if you put these ideas together, the third idea is that we essentially give these robots mathematical descriptions of the shape they need to execute. and these shapes can be varying as a function of time, and you'll see these robots start from a circular formation, change into a rectangular formation, stretch into a straight line, back into an ellipse. and they do this with the same kind of split-second coordination that you see in natural swarms, in nature.so why work with swarms? let me tell you about two applications that we are very interested in. the first one has to do with agriculture, which is probably the biggest problem that we're facing worldwide. as you well know, one in every seven persons in this earth is malnourished. most of the land that we can cultivate has already been cultivated. and the efficiency of most systems in the world is improving, but our production system efficiency is actually declining. and that's mostly because of water shortage, crop diseases, climate change and a couple of other things.so what can robots do? well, we adopt an approach that's called precision farming in the community. and the basic idea is that we fly aerial robots through orchards, and then we build precision models of individual plants. so just like personalized medicine, while you might imagine wanting to treat every patient individually, what we'd like to do is build models of individual plants and then tell the farmer what kind of inputs every plant needs — the inputs in this case being water, fertilizer and pesticide. here you'll see robots traveling through an apple orchard, and in a minute you'll see two of its companions doing the same thing on the left side. and what they're doing is essentially building a map of the orchard. within the map is a map of every plant in this orchard.(robot buzzing)let's see what those maps look like. in the next video, you'll see the cameras that are being used on this robot. on the top-left is essentially a standard color camera. on the left-center is an infrared camera. and on the bottom-left is a thermal camera. and on the main panel, you're seeing a three-dimensional reconstruction of every tree in the orchard as the sensors fly right past the trees. armed with information like this, we can do several things. the first and possibly the most important thing we can do is very simple: count the number of fruits on every tree. by doing this, you tell the farmer how many fruits she has in every tree and allow her to estimate the yield in the orchard, optimizing the production chain downstream.the second thing we can do is take models of plants, construct three-dimensional reconstructions, and from that estimate the canopy size, and then correlate the canopy size to the amount of leaf area on every plant. and this is called the leaf area index. so if you know this leaf area index, you essentially have a measure of how much photosynthesis is possible in every plant, which again tells you how healthy each plant is. by combining visual and infrared information, we can also compute indices such as ndvi. and in this particular case, you can essentially see there are some crops that are not doing as well as other crops. this is easily discernible from imagery, not just visual imagery but combining both visual imagery and infrared imagery.and then lastly, one thing we're interested in doing is detecting the early onset of chlorosis — and this is an orange tree — which is essentially seen by yellowing of leaves. but robots flying overhead can easily spot this autonomously and then report to the farmer that he or she has a problem in this section of the orchard.systems like this can really help, and we're projecting yields that can improve by about ten percent and, more importantly, decrease the amount of inputs such as water by 25 percent by using aerial robot swarms.lastly, i want you to applaud the people who actually create the future, yash mulgaonkar, sikang liu and giuseppe loianno, who are responsible for the three demonstrations that you saw.thank you. <title = "Why medicine often has dangerous side effects for women">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'disease', 'health', 'health care', 'heart health', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'women']">
<occupation = "Women's health pioneer">
we all go to doctors. and we do so with trust and blind faith that the test they are ordering and the medications they're prescribing are based upon evidence — evidence that's designed to help us. however, the reality is that that hasn't always been the case for everyone. what if i told you that the medical science discovered over the past century has been based on only half the population?i'm an emergency medicine doctor. i was trained to be prepared in a medical emergency. it's about saving lives. how cool is that? ok, there's a lot of runny noses and stubbed toes, but no matter who walks through the door to the er, we order the same tests, we prescribe the same medication, without ever thinking about the sex or gender of our patients. why would we? we were never taught that there were any differences between men and women.a recent government accountability study revealed that 80 percent of the drugs withdrawn from the market are due to side effects on women. so let's think about that for a minute. why are we discovering side effects on women only after a drug has been released to the market? do you know that it takes years for a drug to go from an idea to being tested on cells in a laboratory, to animal studies, to then clinical trials on humans, finally to go through a regulatory approval process, to be available for your doctor to prescribe to you? not to mention the millions and billions of dollars of funding it takes to go through that process. so why are we discovering unacceptable side effects on half the population after that has gone through? what's happening?well, it turns out that those cells used in that laboratory, they're male cells, and the animals used in the animal studies were male animals, and the clinical trials have been performed almost exclusively on men.how is it that the male model became our framework for medical research? let's look at an example that has been popularized in the media, and it has to do with the sleep aid ambien. ambien was released on the market over 20 years ago, and since then, hundreds of millions of prescriptions have been written, primarily to women, because women suffer more sleep disorders than men. but just this past year, the food and drug administration recommended cutting the dose in half for women only, because they just realized that women metabolize the drug at a slower rate than men, causing them to wake up in the morning with more of the active drug in their system. and then they're drowsy and they're getting behind the wheel of the car, and they're at risk for motor vehicle accidents. and i can't help but think, as an emergency physician, how many of my patients that i've cared for over the years were involved in a motor vehicle accident that possibly could have been prevented if this type of analysis was performed and acted upon 20 years ago when this drug was first released. how many other things need to be analyzed by gender? what else are we missing?world war ii changed a lot of things, and one of them was this need to protect people from becoming victims of medical research without informed consent. so some much-needed guidelines or rules were set into place, and part of that was this desire to protect women of childbearing age from entering into any medical research studies. there was fear: what if something happened to the fetus during the study? who would be responsible? and so the scientists at this time actually thought this was a blessing in disguise, because let's face it — men's bodies are pretty homogeneous. they don't have the constantly fluctuating levels of hormones that could disrupt clean data they could get if they had only men. it was easier. it was cheaper. not to mention, at this time, there was a general assumption that men and women were alike in every way, apart from their reproductive organs and sex hormones. so it was decided: medical research was performed on men, and the results were later applied to women.what did this do to the notion of women's health? women's health became synonymous with reproduction: breasts, ovaries, uterus, pregnancy. it's this term we now refer to as "bikini medicine." and this stayed this way until about the 1980s, when this concept was challenged by the medical community and by the public health policymakers when they realized that by excluding women from all medical research studies we actually did them a disservice, in that apart from reproductive issues, virtually nothing was known about the unique needs of the female patient.since that time, an overwhelming amount of evidence has come to light that shows us just how different men and women are in every way. you know, we have this saying in medicine: children are not just little adults. and we say that to remind ourselves that children actually have a different physiology than normal adults. and it's because of this that the medical specialty of pediatrics came to light. and we now conduct research on children in order to improve their lives. and i know the same thing can be said about women. women are not just men with boobs and tubes. but they have their own anatomy and physiology that deserves to be studied with the same intensity.let's take the cardiovascular system, for example. this area in medicine has done the most to try to figure out why it seems men and women have completely different heart attacks. heart disease is the number one killer for both men and women, but more women die within the first year of having a heart attack than men. men will complain of crushing chest pain — an elephant is sitting on their chest. and we call this typical. women have chest pain, too. but more women than men will complain of "just not feeling right," "can't seem to get enough air in," "just so tired lately." and for some reason we call this atypical, even though, as i mentioned, women do make up half the population.and so what is some of the evidence to help explain some of these differences? if we look at the anatomy, the blood vessels that surround the heart are smaller in women compared to men, and the way that those blood vessels develop disease is different in women compared to men. and the test that we use to determine if someone is at risk for a heart attack, well, they were initially designed and tested and perfected in men, and so aren't as good at determining that in women. and then if we think about the medications — common medications that we use, like aspirin. we give aspirin to healthy men to help prevent them from having a heart attack, but do you know that if you give aspirin to a healthy woman, it's actually harmful?what this is doing is merely telling us that we are scratching the surface. emergency medicine is a fast-paced business. in how many life-saving areas of medicine, like cancer and stroke, are there important differences between men and women that we could be utilizing? or even, why is it that some people get those runny noses more than others, or why the pain medication that we give to those stubbed toes work in some and not in others?the institute of medicine has said every cell has a sex. what does this mean? sex is dna. gender is how someone presents themselves in society. and these two may not always match up, as we can see with our transgendered population. but it's important to realize that from the moment of conception, every cell in our bodies — skin, hair, heart and lungs — contains our own unique dna, and that dna contains the chromosomes that determine whether we become male or female, man or woman.it used to be thought that those sex-determining chromosomes pictured here — xy if you're male, xx if you're female — merely determined whether you would be born with ovaries or testes, and it was the sex hormones that those organs produced that were responsible for the differences we see in the opposite sex. but we now know that that theory was wrong — or it's at least a little incomplete. and thankfully, scientists like dr. page from the whitehead institute, who works on the y chromosome, and doctor yang from ucla, they have found evidence that tells us that those sex-determining chromosomes that are in every cell in our bodies continue to remain active for our entire lives and could be what's responsible for the differences we see in the dosing of drugs, or why there are differences between men and women in the susceptibility and severity of diseases. this new knowledge is the game-changer, and it's up to those scientists that continue to find that evidence, but it's up to the clinicians to start translating this data at the bedside, today. right now. and to help do this, i'm a co-founder of a national organization called sex and gender women's health collaborative, and we collect all of this data so that it's available for teaching and for patient care. and we're working to bring together the medical educators to the table. that's a big job. it's changing the way medical training has been done since its inception.but i believe in them. i know they're going to see the value of incorporating the gender lens into the current curriculum. it's about training the future health care providers correctly. and regionally, i'm a co-creator of a division within the department of emergency medicine here at brown university, called sex and gender in emergency medicine, and we conduct the research to determine the differences between men and women in emergent conditions, like heart disease and stroke and sepsis and substance abuse, but we also believe that education is paramount.we've created a 360-degree model of education. we have programs for the doctors, for the nurses, for the students and for the patients. because this cannot just be left up to the health care leaders. we all have a role in making a difference. but i must warn you: this is not easy. in fact, it's hard. it's essentially changing the way we think about medicine and health and research. it's changing our relationship to the health care system. but there's no going back. we now know just enough to know that we weren't doing it right.martin luther king, jr. has said, "change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability, but comes through continuous struggle."and the first step towards change is awareness. this is not just about improving medical care for women. this is about personalized, individualized health care for everyone. this awareness has the power to transform medical care for men and women. and from now on, i want you to ask your doctors whether the treatments you are receiving are specific to your sex and gender. they may not know the answer — yet. but the conversation has begun, and together we can all learn. remember, for me and my colleagues in this field, your sex and gender matter.thank you. <title = "Two nameless bodies washed up on the beach. Here are their stories">
<tags = "['Europe', 'Middle East', 'Syria', 'death', 'global issues', 'identity', 'journalism', 'war']">
<occupation = "Journalist">
so this right here is the tiny village of elle, close to lista. it's right at the southernmost tip of norway. and on january 2 this year, an elderly guy who lives in the village, he went out to see what was cast ashore during a recent storm. and on a patch of grass right next to the water's edge, he found a wetsuit. it was grey and black, and he thought it looked cheap. out of each leg of the wetsuit there were sticking two white bones. it was clearly the remains of a human being.and usually, in norway, dead people are identified quickly. so the police started searching through missing reports from the local area, national missing reports, and looked for accidents with a possible connection. they found nothing. so they ran a dna profile, and they started searching internationally through interpol. nothing. this was a person that nobody seemed to be missing. it was an invisible life heading for a nameless grave. but then, after a month, the police in norway got a message from the police in the netherlands. a couple of months earlier, they had found a body, in an identical wetsuit, and they had no idea who this person was. but the police in the netherlands managed to trace the wetsuit by an rfid chip that was sewn in the suit. so they were then able to tell that both wetsuits were bought by the same customer at the same time, october 7, 2014, in the french city of calais by the english channel. but this was all they were able to figure out. the customer paid cash. there was no surveillance footage from the shop. so it became a cold case.we heard this story, and it triggered me and my colleague, photographer tomm christiansen, and we of course had the obvious question: who were these people? at the time, i'd barely heard about calais, but it took about two or three seconds to figure out calais is basically known for two things. it's the spot in continental europe closest to britain, and a lot of migrants and refugees are staying in this camp and are trying desperately to cross over to britain. and right there was a plausible theory about the identity of the two people, and the police made this theory as well. because if you or i or anybody else with a firm connection to europe goes missing off the coast of france, people would just know. your friends or family would report you missing, the police would come search for you, the media would know, and there would be pictures of you on lampposts. it's difficult to disappear without a trace. but if you just fled the war in syria, and your family, if you have any family left, don't necessarily know where you are, and you're staying here illegally amongst thousands of others who come and go every day. well, if you disappear one day, nobody will notice. the police won't come search for you because nobody knows you're gone.and this is what happened to shadi omar kataf and mouaz al balkhi from syria.me and tomm went to calais for the first time in april this year, and after three months of investigation, we were able to tell the story about how these two young men fled the war in syria, ended up stuck in calais, bought wetsuits and drowned in what seems to have been an attempt to swim across the english channel in order to reach england. it is a story about the fact that everybody has a name, everybody has a story, everybody is someone. but it is also a story about what it's like to be a refugee in europe today.so this is where we started our search. this is in calais. right now, between 3,500 and 5,000 people are living here under horrible conditions. it has been dubbed the worst refugee camp in europe. limited access to food, limited access to water, limited access to health care. disease and infections are widespread. and they're all stuck here because they're trying to get to england in order to claim asylum. and they do that by hiding in the back of trucks headed for the ferry, or the eurotunnel, or they sneak inside the tunnel terminal at night to try to hide on the trains.most want to go to britain because they know the language, and so they figure it would be easier to restart their lives from there. they want to work, they want to study, they want to be able to continue their lives. a lot of these people are highly educated and skilled workers. if you go to calais and talk to refugees, you'll meet lawyers, politicians, engineers, graphic designers, farmers, soldiers. you've got the whole spectrum. but who all of these people are usually gets lost in the way we talk about refugees and migrants, because we usually do that in statistics.so you have 60 million refugees globally. about half a million have made the crossing over the mediterranean into europe so far this year, and roughly 4,000 are staying in calais. but these are numbers, and the numbers don't say anything about who these people are, where they came from, or why they're here.and first, i want to tell you about one of them. this is 22-year-old mouaz al balkhi from syria. we first heard about him after being in calais the first time looking for answers to the theory of the two dead bodies. and after a while, we heard this story about a syrian man who was living in bradford in england, and had been desperately searching for his nephew mouaz for months. and it turned out the last time anybody had heard anything from mouaz was october 7, 2014. that was the same date the wetsuits were bought. so we flew over there and we met the uncle and we did dna samples of him, and later on got additional dna samples from mouaz's closest relative who now lives in jordan. the analysis concluded the body who was found in a wetsuit on a beach in the netherlands was actually mouaz al balkhi. and while we were doing all this investigation, we got to know mouaz's story. he was born in the syrian capital of damascus in 1991. he was raised in a middle class family, and his father in the middle there is a chemical engineer who spent 11 years in prison for belonging to the political opposition in syria. while his father was in prison, mouaz took responsibility and he cared for his three sisters. they said he was that kind of guy. mouaz studied to become an electrical engineer at the university of damascus.so a couple of years into the syrian war, the family fled damascus and went to the neighboring country, jordan. their father had problems finding work in jordan, and mouaz could not continue his studies, so he figured, "ok, the best thing i can do to help my family would be to go somewhere where i can finish my studies and find work." so he goes to turkey.in turkey, he's not accepted at a university, and once he had left jordan as a refugee, he was not allowed to reenter. so then he decides to head for the uk, where his uncle lives. he makes it into algeria, walks into libya, pays a people smuggler to help him with the crossing into italy by boat, and from there on he heads to dunkirk, the city right next to calais by the english channel. we know he made at least 12 failed attempts to cross the english channel by hiding in a truck. but at some point, he must have given up all hope. the last night we know he was alive, he spent at a cheap hotel close to the train station in dunkirk. we found his name in the records, and he seems to have stayed there alone. the day after, he went into calais, entered a sports shop a couple of minutes before 8 o'clock in the evening, along with shadi kataf. they both bought wetsuits, and the woman in the shop was the last person we know of to have seen them alive. we have tried to figure out where shadi met mouaz, but we weren't able to do that. but they do have a similar story. we first heard about shadi after a cousin of his, living in germany, had read an arabic translation of the story made of mouaz on facebook. so we got in touch with him. shadi, a couple of years older than mouaz, was also raised in damascus. he was a working kind of guy. he ran a tire repair shop and later worked in a printing company. he lived with his extended family, but their house got bombed early in the war. so the family fled to an area of damascus known as camp yarmouk.yarmouk is being described as the worst place to live on planet earth. they've been bombed by the military, they've been besieged, they've been stormed by isis and they've been cut off from supplies for years. there was a un official who visited last year, and he said, "they ate all the grass so there was no grass left." out of a population of 150,000, only 18,000 are believed to still be left in yarmouk. shadi and his sisters got out. the parents are still stuck inside.so shadi and one of his sisters, they fled to libya. this was after the fall of gaddafi, but before libya turned into full-blown civil war. and in this last remaining sort of stability in libya, shadi took up scuba diving, and he seemed to spend most of his time underwater. he fell completely in love with the ocean, so when he finally decided that he could no longer be in libya, late august 2014, he hoped to find work as a diver when he reached italy. reality was not that easy. we don't know much about his travels because he had a hard time communicating with his family, but we do know that he struggled. and by the end of september, he was living on the streets somewhere in france. on october 7, he calls his cousin in belgium, and explains his situation. he said, "i'm in calais. i need you to come get my backpack and my laptop. i can't afford to pay the people smugglers to help me with the crossing to britain, but i will go buy a wetsuit and i will swim." his cousin, of course, tried to warn him not to, but shadi's battery on the phone went flat, and his phone was never switched on again. what was left of shadi was found nearly three months later, 800 kilometers away in a wetsuit on a beach in norway. he's still waiting for his funeral in norway, and none of his family will be able to attend.many may think that the story about shadi and mouaz is a story about death, but i don't agree. to me, this is a story about two questions that i think we all share: what is a better life, and what am i willing to do to achieve it? and to me, and probably a lot of you, a better life would mean being able to do more of what we think of as meaningful, whether that be spending more time with your family and friends, travel to an exotic place, or just getting money to buy that cool new device or a pair of new sneakers. and this is all within our reach pretty easily.but if you are fleeing a war zone, the answers to those two questions are dramatically different. a better life is a life in safety. it's a life in dignity. a better life means not having your house bombed, not fearing being kidnapped. it means being able to send your children to school, go to university, or just find work to be able to provide for yourself and the ones you love. a better life would be a future of some possibilities compared to nearly none, and that's a strong motivation. and i have no trouble imagining that after spending weeks or even months as a second-grade citizen, living on the streets or in a horrible makeshift camp with a stupid, racist name like "the jungle," most of us would be willing to do just about anything. if i could ask shadi and mouaz the second they stepped into the freezing waters of the english channel, they would probably say, "this is worth the risk," because they could no longer see any other option. and that's desperation, but that's the reality of living as a refugee in western europe in 2015.thank you. bruno giussani: thank you, anders. this is tomm christiansen, who took most of the pictures you have seen and they've done reporting together. tomm, you two have been back to calais recently. this was the third trip. it was after the publication of the article. what has changed? what have you seen there?tomm christiansen: the first time we were in calais, it was about 1,500 refugees there. they had a difficult time, but they were positive, they had hope. the last time, the camp has grown, maybe four or five thousand people. it seemed more permanent, ngos have arrived, a small school has opened. but the thing is that the refugees have stayed for a longer time, and the french government has managed to seal off the borders better, so now the jungle is growing, along with the despair and hopelessness among the refugees.bg: are you planning to go back? and continue the reporting?tc: yes.bg: anders, i'm a former journalist, and to me, it's amazing that in the current climate of slashing budgets and publishers in crisis, dagbladet has consented so many resources for this story, which tells a lot about newspapers taking the responsibility, but how did you sell it to your editors?anders fjellberg: it wasn't easy at first, because we weren't able to know what we actually could figure out. as soon as it became clear that we actually could be able to identify who the first one was, we basically got the message that we could do whatever we wanted, just travel wherever you need to go, do whatever you need to do, just get this done.bg: that's an editor taking responsibility. the story, by the way, has been translated and published across several european countries, and certainly will continue to do. and we want to read the updates from you. thank you anders. thank you tomm. <title = "The unexpected beauty of everyday sounds">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'art', 'creativity', 'culture', 'language', 'music', 'nature', 'sound']">
<occupation = "Singer-songwriter">
as a singer-songwriter, people often ask me about my influences or, as i like to call them, my sonic lineages. and i could easily tell you that i was shaped by the jazz and hip hop that i grew up with, by the ethiopian heritage of my ancestors, or by the 1980s pop on my childhood radio stations. but beyond genre, there is another question: how do the sounds we hear every day influence the music that we make? i believe that everyday soundscape can be the most unexpected inspiration for songwriting, and to look at this idea a little bit more closely, i'm going to talk today about three things: nature, language and silence — or rather, the impossibility of true silence. and through this i hope to give you a sense of a world already alive with musical expression, with each of us serving as active participants, whether we know it or not.i'm going to start today with nature, but before we do that, let's quickly listen to this snippet of an opera singer warming up. here it is.(singing)(singing ends)it's beautiful, isn't it? gotcha! that is actually not the sound of an opera singer warming up. that is the sound of a bird slowed down to a pace that the human ear mistakenly recognizes as its own. it was released as part of peter szöke's 1987 hungarian recording "the unknown music of birds," where he records many birds and slows down their pitches to reveal what's underneath. let's listen to the full-speed recording.(bird singing)now, let's hear the two of them together so your brain can juxtapose them.(bird singing at slow then full speed)(singing ends)it's incredible. perhaps the techniques of opera singing were inspired by birdsong. as humans, we intuitively understand birds to be our musical teachers.in ethiopia, birds are considered an integral part of the origin of music itself. the story goes like this: 1,500 years ago, a young man was born in the empire of aksum, a major trading center of the ancient world. his name was yared. when yared was seven years old his father died, and his mother sent him to go live with an uncle, who was a priest of the ethiopian orthodox tradition, one of the oldest churches in the world. now, this tradition has an enormous amount of scholarship and learning, and yared had to study and study and study and study, and one day he was studying under a tree, when three birds came to him. one by one, these birds became his teachers. they taught him music — scales, in fact. and yared, eventually recognized as saint yared, used these scales to compose five volumes of chants and hymns for worship and celebration. and he used these scales to compose and to create an indigenous musical notation system. and these scales evolved into what is known as kiñit, the unique, pentatonic, five-note, modal system that is very much alive and thriving and still evolving in ethiopia today.now, i love this story because it's true at multiple levels. saint yared was a real, historical figure, and the natural world can be our musical teacher. and we have so many examples of this: the pygmies of the congo tune their instruments to the pitches of the birds in the forest around them. musician and natural soundscape expert bernie krause describes how a healthy environment has animals and insects taking up low, medium and high-frequency bands, in exactly the same way as a symphony does. and countless works of music were inspired by bird and forest song. yes, the natural world can be our cultural teacher.so let's go now to the uniquely human world of language. every language communicates with pitch to varying degrees, whether it's mandarin chinese, where a shift in melodic inflection gives the same phonetic syllable an entirely different meaning, to a language like english, where a raised pitch at the end of a sentence ... (going up in pitch) implies a question? as an ethiopian-american woman, i grew up around the language of amharic, amhariña. it was my first language, the language of my parents, one of the main languages of ethiopia. and there are a million reasons to fall in love with this language: its depth of poetics, its double entendres, its wax and gold, its humor, its proverbs that illuminate the wisdom and follies of life. but there's also this melodicism, a musicality built right in. and i find this distilled most clearly in what i like to call emphatic language — language that's meant to highlight or underline or that springs from surprise. take, for example, the word: "indey." now, if there are ethiopians in the audience, they're probably chuckling to themselves, because the word means something like "no!" or "how could he?" or "no, he didn't." it kind of depends on the situation. but when i was a kid, this was my very favorite word, and i think it's because it has a pitch. it has a melody. you can almost see the shape as it springs from someone's mouth. "indey" — it dips, and then raises again. and as a musician and composer, when i hear that word, something like this is floating through my mind.(music and singing "indey")(music ends)or take, for example, the phrase for "it is right" or "it is correct" — "lickih nehu ... lickih nehu." it's an affirmation, an agreement. "lickih nehu." when i hear that phrase, something like this starts rolling through my mind.(music and singing "lickih nehu")(music ends)and in both of those cases, what i did was i took the melody and the phrasing of those words and phrases and i turned them into musical parts to use in these short compositions. and i like to write bass lines, so they both ended up kind of as bass lines.now, this is based on the work of jason moran and others who work intimately with music and language, but it's also something i've had in my head since i was a kid, how musical my parents sounded when they were speaking to each other and to us. it was from them and from amhariña that i learned that we are awash in musical expression with every word, every sentence that we speak, every word, every sentence that we receive. perhaps you can hear it in the words i'm speaking even now.finally, we go to the 1950s united states and the most seminal work of 20th century avant-garde composition: john cage's "4:33," written for any instrument or combination of instruments. the musician or musicians are invited to walk onto the stage with a stopwatch and open the score, which was actually purchased by the museum of modern art — the score, that is. and this score has not a single note written and there is not a single note played for four minutes and 33 seconds. and, at once enraging and enrapturing, cage shows us that even when there are no strings being plucked by fingers or hands hammering piano keys, still there is music, still there is music, still there is music. and what is this music? it was that sneeze in the back. it is the everyday soundscape that arises from the audience themselves: their coughs, their sighs, their rustles, their whispers, their sneezes, the room, the wood of the floors and the walls expanding and contracting, creaking and groaning with the heat and the cold, the pipes clanking and contributing. and controversial though it was, and even controversial though it remains, cage's point is that there is no such thing as true silence. even in the most silent environments, we still hear and feel the sound of our own heartbeats. the world is alive with musical expression. we are already immersed.now, i had my own moment of, let's say, remixing john cage a couple of months ago when i was standing in front of the stove cooking lentils. and it was late one night and it was time to stir, so i lifted the lid off the cooking pot, and i placed it onto the kitchen counter next to me, and it started to roll back and forth making this sound.(sound of metal lid clanking against a counter)(clanking ends)and it stopped me cold. i thought, "what a weird, cool swing that cooking pan lid has." so when the lentils were ready and eaten, i hightailed it to my backyard studio, and i made this.(music, including the sound of the lid, and singing)(music ends)now, john cage wasn't instructing musicians to mine the soundscape for sonic textures to turn into music. he was saying that on its own, the environment is musically generative, that it is generous, that it is fertile, that we are already immersed.musician, music researcher, surgeon and human hearing expert charles limb is a professor at johns hopkins university and he studies music and the brain. and he has a theory that it is possible — it is possible — that the human auditory system actually evolved to hear music, because it is so much more complex than it needs to be for language alone. and if that's true, it means that we're hard-wired for music, that we can find it anywhere, that there is no such thing as a musical desert, that we are permanently hanging out at the oasis, and that is marvelous. we can add to the soundtrack, but it's already playing.and it doesn't mean don't study music. study music, trace your sonic lineages and enjoy that exploration. but there is a kind of sonic lineage to which we all belong. so the next time you are seeking percussion inspiration, look no further than your tires, as they roll over the unusual grooves of the freeway, or the top-right burner of your stove and that strange way that it clicks as it is preparing to light. when seeking melodic inspiration, look no further than dawn and dusk avian orchestras or to the natural lilt of emphatic language. we are the audience and we are the composers and we take from these pieces we are given. we make, we make, we make, we make, knowing that when it comes to nature or language or soundscape, there is no end to the inspiration — if we are listening.thank you. <title = "The secret US prisons you've never heard of before">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'TED Fellows', 'communication', 'crime', 'journalism', 'prison', 'privacy']">
<occupation = "Investigative journalist">
father daniel berrigan once said that "writing about prisoners is a little like writing about the dead." i think what he meant is that we treat prisoners as ghosts. they're unseen and unheard. it's easy to simply ignore them and it's even easier when the government goes to great lengths to keep them hidden.as a journalist, i think these stories of what people in power do when no one is watching, are precisely the stories that we need to tell. that's why i began investigating the most secretive and experimental prison units in the united states, for so-called "second-tier" terrorists. the government calls these units communications management units or cmus. prisoners and guards call them "little guantanamo." they are islands unto themselves. but unlike gitmo they exist right here, at home, floating within larger federal prisons.there are 2 cmus. one was opened inside the prison in terre haute, indiana, and the other is inside this prison, in marion, illinois. neither of them underwent the formal review process that is required by law when they were opened. cmu prisoners have all been convicted of crimes. some of their cases are questionable and some involve threats and violence. i'm not here to argue the guilt or innocence of any prisoner. i'm here because as supreme court justice thurgood marshall said, "when the prisons and gates slam shut, prisoners do not lose their human quality."every prisoner i've interviewed has said there are three flecks of light in the darkness of prison: phone calls, letters and visits from family. cmus aren't solitary confinement, but they radically restrict all of these to levels that meet or exceed the most extreme prisons in the united states. their phone calls can be limited to 45 minutes a month, compared to the 300 minutes other prisoners receive. their letters can be limited to six pieces of paper. their visits can be limited to four hours per month, compared to the 35 hours that people like olympic park bomber eric rudolph receive in the supermax. on top of that, cmu visits are non-contact which means prisoners are not allowed to even hug their family. as one cmu prisoner said, "we're not being tortured here, except psychologically."the government won't say who is imprisoned here. but through court documents, open records requests and interviews with current and former prisoners, some small windows into the cmus have opened.there's an estimated 60 to 70 prisoners here, and they're overwhelmingly muslim. they include people like dr. rafil dhafir, who violated the economic sanctions on iraq by sending medical supplies for the children there. they've included people like yassin aref. aref and his family fled to new york from saddam hussein's iraq as refugees. he was arrested in 2004 as part of an fbi sting. aref is an imam and he was asked to bear witness to a loan, which is a tradition in islamic culture. it turned out that one of the people involved in the loan was trying to enlist someone else in a fake attack. aref didn't know. for that, he was convicted of conspiracy to provide material support to a terrorist group.the cmus also include some non-muslim prisoners. the guards call them "balancers," meaning they help balance out the racial numbers, in hopes of deflecting law suits. these balancers include animal rights and environmental activists like daniel mcgowan.mcgowan was convicted of participating in two arsons in the name of defending the environment as part of the earth liberation front. during his sentencing, he was afraid that he would be sent to a rumored secret prison for terrorists. the judge dismissed all those fears, saying that they weren't supported by any facts. but that might be because the government hasn't fully explained why some prisoners end up in a cmu, and who is responsible for these decisions. when mcgowan was transferred, he was told it's because he is a "domestic terrorist," a term the fbi uses repeatedly when talking about environmental activists. now, keep in mind there are about 400 prisoners in us prisons who are classified as terrorists, and only a handful of them are in the cmus. in mcgowan's case, he was previously at a low-security prison and he had no communications violations.so, why was he moved? like other cmu prisoners, mcgowan repeatedly asked for an answer, a hearing, or some opportunity for an appeal. this example from another prisoner shows how those requests are viewed. "wants a transfer." "told him no." at one point, the prison warden himself recommended mcgowan's transfer out of the cmu citing his good behavior, but the warden was overruled by the bureau of prison's counterterrorism unit, working with the joint terrorism task force of the fbi.later i found out that mcgowan was really sent to a cmu not because of what he did, but what he has said. a memo from the counterterrorism unit cited mcgowan's "anti-government beliefs." while imprisoned, he continued writing about environmental issues, saying that activists must reflect on their mistakes and listen to each other. now, in fairness, if you've spent any time at all in washington, dc, you know this is really a radical concept for the government. i actually asked to visit mcgowan in the cmu. and i was approved. that came as quite a shock. first, because as i've discussed on this stage before, i learned that the fbi has been monitoring my work. second, because it would make me the first and only journalist to visit a cmu. i had even learned through the bureau of prisons counterterrorism unit, that they had been monitoring my speeches about cmus, like this one. so how could i possibly be approved to visit? a few days before i went out to the prison, i got an answer.i was allowed to visit mcgowan as a friend, not a journalist. journalists are not allowed here. mcgowan was told by cmu officials that if i asked any questions or published any story, that he would be punished for my reporting. when i arrived for our visit, the guards reminded me that they knew who i was and knew about my work. and they said that if i attempted to interview mcgowan, the visit would be terminated. the bureau of prisons describes cmus as "self-contained housing units." but i think that's an orwellian way of describing black holes. when you visit a cmu, you go through all the security checkpoints that you would expect. but then the walk to the visitation room is silent. when a cmu prisoner has a visit, the rest of the prison is on lockdown. i was ushered into a small room, so small my outstretched arms could touch each wall. there was a grapefruit-sized orb in the ceiling for the visit to be live-monitored by the counterterrorism unit in west virginia. the unit insists that all the visits have to be in english for cmu prisoners, which is an additional hardship for many of the muslim families. there is a thick sheet of foggy, bulletproof glass and on the other side was daniel mcgowan. we spoke through these handsets attached to the wall and talked about books and movies. we did our best to find reasons to laugh. to fight boredom and amuse himself while in the cmu, mcgowan had been spreading a rumor that i was secretly the president of a twilight fan club in washington, dc for the record, i'm not. but i kind of the hope the fbi now thinks that bella and edward are terrorist code names. during our visit, mcgowan spoke most and at length about his niece lily, his wife jenny and how torturous it feels to never be able to hug them, to never be able to hold their hands. three months after our visit, mcgowan was transferred out of the cmu and then, without warning, he was sent back again. i had published leaked cmu documents on my website and the counterterrorism unit said that mcgowan had called his wife and asked her to mail them. he wanted to see what the government was saying about him, and for that he was sent back to the cmu. when he was finally released at the end of his sentence, his story got even more kafkaesque. he wrote an article for the huffington post headlined, "court documents prove i was sent to a cmu for my political speech."the next day he was thrown back in jail for his political speech. his attorneys quickly secured his release, but the message was very clear: don't talk about this place.today, nine years after they were opened by the bush administration, the government is codifying how and why cmus were created. according to the bureau of prisons, they are for prisoners with "inspirational significance." i think that is very nice way of saying these are political prisons for political prisoners.prisoners are sent to a cmu because of their race, their religion or their political beliefs.now, if you think that characterization is too strong, just look at some of the government's own documents. when some of mcgowan's mail was rejected by the cmu, the sender was told it's because the letters were intended "for political prisoners." when another prisoner, animal rights activist andy stepanian, was sent to a cmu, it was because of his anti-government and anti-corporate views.now, i know all of this may be hard to believe, that it's happening right now, and in the united states. but the unknown reality is that the us has a dark history of disproportionately punishing people because of their political beliefs. in the 1960s, before marion was home to the cmu, it was home to the notorious control unit. prisoners were locked down in solitary for 22 hours a day. the warden said the unit was to "control revolutionary attitudes." in the 1980s, another experiment called the lexington high security unit held women connected to the weather underground, black liberation and puerto rican independent struggles. the prison radically restricted communication and used sleep deprivation, and constant light for so-called "ideological conversion." those prisons were eventually shut down, but only through the campaigning of religious groups and human rights advocates, like amnesty international.today, civil rights lawyers with the center for constitutional rights are challenging cmus in court for depriving prisoners of their due process rights and for retaliating against them for their protected political and religious speech. many of these documents would have never come to light without this lawsuit.the message of these groups and my message for you today is that we must bear witness to what is being done to these prisoners. their treatment is a reflection of the values held beyond prison walls. this story is not just about prisoners. it is about us. it is about our own commitment to human rights. it is about whether we will choose to stop repeating the mistakes of our past. if we don't listen to what father berrigan described as the stories of the dead, they will soon become the stories of ourselves.thank you. (applause ends)tom rielly: i have a couple questions. when i was in high school, i learned about the bill of rights, the constitution, freedom of speech, due process and about 25 other laws and rights that seem to be violated by this. how could this possibly be happening?will potter: i think that's the number one question i get throughout all of my work, and the short answer is that people don't know. i think the solution to any of these types of situations, any rights abuses, are really dependent on two things. they're dependent on knowledge that it's actually happening and then a means and efficacy to actually make a change. and unfortunately with these prisoners, one, people don't know what's happening at all and then they're already disenfranchised populations who don't have access to attorneys, not native english speakers. in some of these cases, they have great representation that i mentioned, but there's just not a public awareness of what's happening.tr: isn't it guaranteed in prison that you have right to council or access to council?wp: there's a tendency in our culture to see when people have been convicted of a crime, no matter if that charge was bogus or legitimate, that whatever happens to them after that is warranted. and i think that's a really damaging and dangerous narrative that we have, that allows these types of things to happen, as the general public just kind of turns a blind eye to it.tr: all those documents on screen were all real documents, word for word, unchanged at all, right?wp: absolutely. i've actually uploaded all of them to my website. it's willpotter.com/cmu and it's a footnoted version of the talk, so you can see the documents for yourself without the little snippets. you can see the full version. i relied overwhelmingly on primary source documents or on primary interviews with former and current prisoners, with people that are dealing with this situation every day. and like i said, i've been there myself, as well.tr: you're doing courageous work.wp: thank you very much. thank you all. <title = " How CRISPR lets us edit our DNA">
<tags = "['Bioethics', 'CRISPR', 'DNA', 'biotech', 'engineering', 'future', 'genetics', 'health', 'innovation', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'molecular biology', 'philosophy', 'science', 'software', 'synthetic biology', 'technology', 'virus']">
<occupation = "Biologist">
a few years ago, with my colleague, emmanuelle charpentier, i invented a new technology for editing genomes. it's called crispr-cas9. the crispr technology allows scientists to make changes to the dna in cells that could allow us to cure genetic disease.you might be interested to know that the crispr technology came about through a basic research project that was aimed at discovering how bacteria fight viral infections. bacteria have to deal with viruses in their environment, and we can think about a viral infection like a ticking time bomb — a bacterium has only a few minutes to defuse the bomb before it gets destroyed. so, many bacteria have in their cells an adaptive immune system called crispr, that allows them to detect viral dna and destroy it.part of the crispr system is a protein called cas9, that's able to seek out, cut and eventually degrade viral dna in a specific way. and it was through our research to understand the activity of this protein, cas9, that we realized that we could harness its function as a genetic engineering technology — a way for scientists to delete or insert specific bits of dna into cells with incredible precision — that would offer opportunities to do things that really haven't been possible in the past.the crispr technology has already been used to change the dna in the cells of mice and monkeys, other organisms as well. chinese scientists showed recently that they could even use the crispr technology to change genes in human embryos. and scientists in philadelphia showed they could use crispr to remove the dna of an integrated hiv virus from infected human cells.the opportunity to do this kind of genome editing also raises various ethical issues that we have to consider, because this technology can be employed not only in adult cells, but also in the embryos of organisms, including our own species. and so, together with my colleagues, i've called for a global conversation about the technology that i co-invented, so that we can consider all of the ethical and societal implications of a technology like this.what i want to do now is tell you what the crispr technology is, what it can do, where we are today and why i think we need to take a prudent path forward in the way that we employ this technology.when viruses infect a cell, they inject their dna. and in a bacterium, the crispr system allows that dna to be plucked out of the virus, and inserted in little bits into the chromosome — the dna of the bacterium. and these integrated bits of viral dna get inserted at a site called crispr. crispr stands for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats. a big mouthful — you can see why we use the acronym crispr. it's a mechanism that allows cells to record, over time, the viruses they have been exposed to. and importantly, those bits of dna are passed on to the cells' progeny, so cells are protected from viruses not only in one generation, but over many generations of cells. this allows the cells to keep a record of infection, and as my colleague, blake wiedenheft, likes to say, the crispr locus is effectively a genetic vaccination card in cells. once those bits of dna have been inserted into the bacterial chromosome, the cell then makes a little copy of a molecule called rna, which is orange in this picture, that is an exact replicate of the viral dna. rna is a chemical cousin of dna, and it allows interaction with dna molecules that have a matching sequence.so those little bits of rna from the crispr locus associate — they bind — to protein called cas9, which is white in the picture, and form a complex that functions like a sentinel in the cell. it searches through all of the dna in the cell, to find sites that match the sequences in the bound rnas. and when those sites are found — as you can see here, the blue molecule is dna — this complex associates with that dna and allows the cas9 cleaver to cut up the viral dna. it makes a very precise break. so we can think of the cas9 rna sentinel complex like a pair of scissors that can cut dna — it makes a double-stranded break in the dna helix. and importantly, this complex is programmable, so it can be programmed to recognize particular dna sequences, and make a break in the dna at that site.as i'm going to tell you now, we recognized that that activity could be harnessed for genome engineering, to allow cells to make a very precise change to the dna at the site where this break was introduced. that's sort of analogous to the way that we use a word-processing program to fix a typo in a document.the reason we envisioned using the crispr system for genome engineering is because cells have the ability to detect broken dna and repair it. so when a plant or an animal cell detects a double-stranded break in its dna, it can fix that break, either by pasting together the ends of the broken dna with a little, tiny change in the sequence of that position, or it can repair the break by integrating a new piece of dna at the site of the cut. so if we have a way to introduce double-stranded breaks into dna at precise places, we can trigger cells to repair those breaks, by either the disruption or incorporation of new genetic information. so if we were able to program the crispr technology to make a break in dna at the position at or near a mutation causing cystic fibrosis, for example, we could trigger cells to repair that mutation.genome engineering is actually not new, it's been in development since the 1970s. we've had technologies for sequencing dna, for copying dna, and even for manipulating dna. and these technologies were very promising, but the problem was that they were either inefficient, or they were difficult enough to use that most scientists had not adopted them for use in their own laboratories, or certainly for many clinical applications. so, the opportunity to take a technology like crispr and utilize it has appeal, because of its relative simplicity. we can think of older genome engineering technologies as similar to having to rewire your computer each time you want to run a new piece of software, whereas the crispr technology is like software for the genome, we can program it easily, using these little bits of rna.so once a double-stranded break is made in dna, we can induce repair, and thereby potentially achieve astounding things, like being able to correct mutations that cause sickle cell anemia or cause huntington's disease. i actually think that the first applications of the crispr technology are going to happen in the blood, where it's relatively easier to deliver this tool into cells, compared to solid tissues.right now, a lot of the work that's going on applies to animal models of human disease, such as mice. the technology is being used to make very precise changes that allow us to study the way that these changes in the cell's dna affect either a tissue or, in this case, an entire organism.now in this example, the crispr technology was used to disrupt a gene by making a tiny change in the dna in a gene that is responsible for the black coat color of these mice. imagine that these white mice differ from their pigmented litter-mates by just a tiny change at one gene in the entire genome, and they're otherwise completely normal. and when we sequence the dna from these animals, we find that the change in the dna has occurred at exactly the place where we induced it, using the crispr technology.additional experiments are going on in other animals that are useful for creating models for human disease, such as monkeys. and here we find that we can use these systems to test the application of this technology in particular tissues, for example, figuring out how to deliver the crispr tool into cells. we also want to understand better how to control the way that dna is repaired after it's cut, and also to figure out how to control and limit any kind of off-target, or unintended effects of using the technology.i think that we will see clinical application of this technology, certainly in adults, within the next 10 years. i think that it's likely that we will see clinical trials and possibly even approved therapies within that time, which is a very exciting thing to think about. and because of the excitement around this technology, there's a lot of interest in start-up companies that have been founded to commercialize the crispr technology, and lots of venture capitalists that have been investing in these companies.but we have to also consider that the crispr technology can be used for things like enhancement. imagine that we could try to engineer humans that have enhanced properties, such as stronger bones, or less susceptibility to cardiovascular disease or even to have properties that we would consider maybe to be desirable, like a different eye color or to be taller, things like that. "designer humans," if you will. right now, the genetic information to understand what types of genes would give rise to these traits is mostly not known. but it's important to know that the crispr technology gives us a tool to make such changes, once that knowledge becomes available.this raises a number of ethical questions that we have to carefully consider, and this is why i and my colleagues have called for a global pause in any clinical application of the crispr technology in human embryos, to give us time to really consider all of the various implications of doing so. and actually, there is an important precedent for such a pause from the 1970s, when scientists got together to call for a moratorium on the use of molecular cloning, until the safety of that technology could be tested carefully and validated.so, genome-engineered humans are not with us yet, but this is no longer science fiction. genome-engineered animals and plants are happening right now. and this puts in front of all of us a huge responsibility, to consider carefully both the unintended consequences as well as the intended impacts of a scientific breakthrough.thank you. (applause ends)bruno giussani: jennifer, this is a technology with huge consequences, as you pointed out. your attitude about asking for a pause or a moratorium or a quarantine is incredibly responsible. there are, of course, the therapeutic results of this, but then there are the un-therapeutic ones and they seem to be the ones gaining traction, particularly in the media. this is one of the latest issues of the economist — "editing humanity." it's all about genetic enhancement, it's not about therapeutics. what kind of reactions did you get back in march from your colleagues in the science world, when you asked or suggested that we should actually pause this for a moment and think about it?jennifer doudna: my colleagues were actually, i think, delighted to have the opportunity to discuss this openly. it's interesting that as i talk to people, my scientific colleagues as well as others, there's a wide variety of viewpoints about this. so clearly it's a topic that needs careful consideration and discussion.bg: there's a big meeting happening in december that you and your colleagues are calling, together with the national academy of sciences and others, what do you hope will come out of the meeting, practically?jd: well, i hope that we can air the views of many different individuals and stakeholders who want to think about how to use this technology responsibly. it may not be possible to come up with a consensus point of view, but i think we should at least understand what all the issues are as we go forward.bg: now, colleagues of yours, like george church, for example, at harvard, they say, "yeah, ethical issues basically are just a question of safety. we test and test and test again, in animals and in labs, and then once we feel it's safe enough, we move on to humans." so that's kind of the other school of thought, that we should actually use this opportunity and really go for it. is there a possible split happening in the science community about this? i mean, are we going to see some people holding back because they have ethical concerns, and some others just going forward because some countries under-regulate or don't regulate at all?jd: well, i think with any new technology, especially something like this, there are going to be a variety of viewpoints, and i think that's perfectly understandable. i think that in the end, this technology will be used for human genome engineering, but i think to do that without careful consideration and discussion of the risks and potential complications would not be responsible.bg: there are a lot of technologies and other fields of science that are developing exponentially, pretty much like yours. i'm thinking about artificial intelligence, autonomous robots and so on. no one seems — aside from autonomous warfare robots — nobody seems to have launched a similar discussion in those fields, in calling for a moratorium. do you think that your discussion may serve as a blueprint for other fields?jd: well, i think it's hard for scientists to get out of the laboratory. speaking for myself, it's a little bit uncomfortable to do that. but i do think that being involved in the genesis of this really puts me and my colleagues in a position of responsibility. and i would say that i certainly hope that other technologies will be considered in the same way, just as we would want to consider something that could have implications in other fields besides biology.bg: jennifer, thanks for coming to ted.jd: thank you. <title = "An Internet without screens might look like this">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'design', 'future', 'happiness', 'humanity', 'invention', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Designer">
i'd like to start by asking you all to go to your happy place, please. yes, your happy place, i know you've got one even if it's fake. ok, so, comfortable? good.now i'd like to you to mentally answer the following questions. is there any strip lighting in your happy place? any plastic tables? polyester flooring? mobile phones? no? i think we all know that our happy place is meant to be somewhere natural, outdoors — on a beach, fireside. we'll be reading or eating or knitting. and we're surrounded by natural light and organic elements. natural things make us happy. and happiness is a great motivator; we strive for happiness. perhaps that's why we're always redesigning everything, in the hopes that our solutions might feel more natural. so let's start there — with the idea that good design should feel natural.your phone is not very natural. and you probably think you're addicted to your phone, but you're really not. we're not addicted to devices, we're addicted to the information that flows through them. i wonder how long you would be happy in your happy place without any information from the outside world. i'm interested in how we access that information, how we experience it. we're moving from a time of static information, held in books and libraries and bus stops, through a period of digital information, towards a period of fluid information, where your children will expect to be able to access anything, anywhere at any time, from quantum physics to medieval viticulture, from gender theory to tomorrow's weather, just like switching on a lightbulb — imagine that.humans also like simple tools. your phone is not a very simple tool. a fork is a simple tool. and we don't like them made of plastic, in the same way i don't really like my phone very much — it's not how i want to experience information.i think there are better solutions than a world mediated by screens. i don't hate screens, but i don't feel — and i don't think any of us feel that good about how much time we spend slouched over them. fortunately, the big tech companies seem to agree. they're actually heavily invested in touch and speech and gesture, and also in senses — things that can turn dumb objects, like cups, and imbue them with the magic of the internet, potentially turning this digital cloud into something we might touch and move.the parents in crisis over screen time need physical digital toys teaching their kids to read, as well as family-safe app stores. and i think, actually, that's already really happening.reality is richer than screens. for example, i love books. for me they are time machines — atoms and molecules bound in space, from the moment of their creation to the moment of my experience. but frankly, the content's identical on my phone. so what makes this a richer experience than a screen? i mean, scientifically. we need screens, of course. i'm going to show film, i need the enormous screen. but there's more than you can do with these magic boxes. your phone is not the internet's door bitch. we can build things — physical things, using physics and pixels, that can integrate the internet into the world around us. and i'm going to show you a few examples of those.a while ago, i got to work with a design agency, berg, on an exploration of what the internet without screens might actually look like. and they showed us a range ways that light can work with simple senses and physical objects to really bring the internet to life, to make it tangible. like this wonderfully mechanical youtube player. and this was an inspiration to me.next i worked with the japanese agency, aq, on a research project into mental health. we wanted to create an object that could capture the subjective data around mood swings that's so essential to diagnosis. this object captures your touch, so you might press it very hard if you're angry, or stroke it if you're calm. it's like a digital emoji stick. and then you might revisit those moments later, and add context to them online. most of all, we wanted to create an intimate, beautiful thing that could live in your pocket and be loved.the binoculars are actually a birthday present for the sydney opera house's 40th anniversary. our friends at tellart in boston brought over a pair of street binoculars, the kind you might find on the empire state building, and they fitted them with 360-degree views of other iconic world heritage sights — using street view. and then we stuck them under the steps. so, they became this very physical, simple reappropriation, or like a portal to these other icons. so you might see versailles or shackleton's hut. basically, it's virtual reality circa 1955. in our office we use hacky sacks to exchange urls. this is incredibly simple, it's like your opal card. you basically put a website on the little chip in here, and then you do this and ... bosh! — the website appears on your phone. it's about 10 cents.treehugger is a project that we're working on with grumpy sailor and finch, here in sydney. and i'm very excited about what might happen when you pull the phones apart and you put the bits into trees, and that my children might have an opportunity to visit an enchanted forest guided by a magic wand, where they could talk to digital fairies and ask them questions, and be asked questions in return. as you can see, we're at the cardboard stage with this one. but i'm very excited by the possibility of getting kids back outside without screens, but with all the powerful magic of the internet at their fingertips. and we hope to have something like this working by the end of the year.so let's recap. humans like natural solutions. humans love information. humans need simple tools. these principles should underpin how we design for the future, not just for the internet. you may feel uncomfortable about the age of information that we're moving into. you may feel challenged, rather than simply excited. guess what? me too. it's a really extraordinary period of human history.we are the people that actually build our world, there are no artificial intelligences... yet. it's us — designers, architects, artists, engineers. and if we challenge ourselves, i think that actually we can have a happy place filled with the information we love that feels as natural and as simple as switching on lightbulb. and although it may seem inevitable, that what the public wants is watches and websites and widgets, maybe we could give a bit of thought to cork and light and hacky sacks.thank you very much. <title = "Deep under the Earth's surface, discovering beauty and science">
<tags = "['South America', 'adventure', 'beauty', 'biodiversity', 'ecology', 'environment', 'exploration', 'geology', 'glacier', 'photography', 'science', 'science and art']">
<occupation = "Speleologist">
i would like to invite you to come along on a visit to a dark continent. it is the continent hidden under the surface of the earth. it is largely unexplored, poorly understood, and the stuff of legends. but it is made also of dramatic landscapes like this huge underground chamber, and it is rich with surprising biological and mineralogical worlds.thanks to the efforts of intrepid voyagers in the last three centuries — actually, we know also thanks to satellite technology, of course — we know almost every single square meter of our planet's surface. however, we know still very little about what is hidden inside the earth. because a cave landscape, like this deep shaft in italy, is hidden, the potential of cave exploration — the geographical dimension — is poorly understood and unappreciated. because we are creatures living on the surface, our perception of the inner side of the planet is in some ways skewed, as is that of the depth of the oceans or of the upper atmosphere.however, since systematic cave exploration started about one century ago, we know actually that caves exist in every continent of the world. a single cave system, like mammoth cave, which is in kentucky, can be as long as more than 600 kilometers. and an abyss like krubera voronya, which is in the caucasus region, actually the deepest cave explored in the world, can go as far as more than 2,000 meters below the surface. that means a journey of weeks for a cave explorer.caves form in karstic regions. so karstic regions are areas of the world where the infiltrating water along cracks, fractures, can easily dissolve soluble lithologies, forming a drainage system of tunnels, conduits — a three-dimensional network, actually. karstic regions cover almost 20 percent of the continents' surface, and we know actually that speleologists in the last 50 years have explored roughly 30,000 kilometers of cave passages around the world, which is a big number. but geologists have estimated that what is still missing, to be discovered and mapped, is something around 10 million kilometers.that means that for each meter of a cave that we already know, that we have explored, there are still some tens of kilometers of undiscovered passages. that means that this is really an endless continent, and we will never be able to explore it completely. and this estimation is made without considering other types of caves, like, for example, inside glaciers or even volcanic caves, which are not karstic, but are formed by lava flows. and if we have a look at other planets like, for example, mars, you will see that this characteristic is not so specific of our home planet. however, i will show to you now that we do not need to go to mars to explore alien worlds.i'm a speleologist, that means a cave explorer. and i started with this passion when i was really young in the mountains not far from my hometown in north italy, in the karstic regions of the alps and the dolomites. but soon, the quest for exploration brought me to the farthest corner of the planet, searching for new potential entrances of this undiscovered continent. and in 2009, i had the opportunity to visit the tepui table mountains, which are in the orinoco and amazon basins. these massifs enchanted me from the first time i saw them. they are surrounded by vertical, vertiginous rock walls with silvery waterfalls that are lost in the forest. they really inspired in me a sense of wilderness, with a soul older than millions and millions of years. and this dramatic landscape inspired among other things also conan doyle's "the lost world" novel in 1912. and they are, really, a lost world. scientists consider those mountains as islands in time, being separated from the surrounding lowlands since tens of millions of years ago. they are surrounded by up to 1,000-meter-high walls, resembling a fortress, impregnable by humans. and, in fact, only a few of these mountains have been climbed and explored on their top.these mountains contain also a scientific paradox: they are made by quartz, which is a very common mineral on the earth's crust, and the rock made up by quartz is called quartzite, and quartzite is one of the hardest and least soluble minerals on earth. so we do not expect at all to find a cave there. despite this, in the last 10 years, speleologists from italy, slovakia, czech republic, and, of course, venezuela and brazil, have explored several caves in this area. so how can it be possible?to understand this contradiction, we have to consider the time factor, because the history of the tepuis is extremely long, starting about 1.6 billion years ago with the formation of the rock, and then evolving with the uplift of the region 150 million years ago, after the disruption of the pangaea supercontinent and the opening of the atlantic ocean. so you can imagine that the water had tens or even hundreds of millions of years to sculpt the strangest forms on the tepuis' surfaces, but also to open the fractures and form stone cities, rock cities, fields of towers which are characterized in the famous landscape of the tepuis. but nobody could have imagined what was happening inside a mountain in so long a time frame.and so i was focusing in 2010 on one of those massifs, the auyán-tepui, which is very famous because it hosts angel falls, which is the highest waterfall in the world — about 979 meters of vertical drop. and i was searching for hints of the existence of cave systems through satellite images, and finally we identified an area of collapses of the surface — so, big boulders, rock piles — and that means that there was a void below. it was a clear indication that there was something inside the mountain.so we did several attempts to reach this area, by land and with a helicopter, but it was really difficult because — you have to imagine that these mountains are covered by clouds most of the year, by fog. there are strong winds, and there are almost 4,000 millimeters of rainfall per year, so it's really, really difficult to find good conditions. and only in 2013 we finally landed on the spot and we started the exploration of the cave.the cave is huge. it's a huge network under the surface of the tepui plateau, and in only ten days of expedition, we explored more than 20 kilometers of cave passages. and it's a huge network of underground rivers, channels, big rooms, extremely deep shafts.so it's really an incredible place. and we named it imawarì yeuta. that means, in the pemón indigenous language, "the house of the gods." you have to imagine that indigenous people have never been there. it was impossible for them to reach this area. however, there were legends about the existence of a cave in the mountain. so when we started the exploration, we had to explore with a great respect, both because of the religious beliefs of the indigenous people, but also because it was really a sacred place, because no human had entered there before. so we had to use special protocols to not contaminate the environment with our presence, and we tried also to share with the community, with the indigenous community, our discoveries.and the caves represent, really, a snapshot of the past. the time needed for their formation could be as long as 50 or even 100 million years, which makes them possibly the oldest caves that we can explore on earth. what you can find there is really evidence of a lost world.when you enter a quartzite cave, you have to completely forget what you know about caves — classic limestone caves or the touristic caves that you can visit in several places in the world. because what seems a simple stalactite here is not made by calcium carbonate, but is made by opal, and one of those stalactites can require tens of millions of years to be formed. but you can find even stranger forms, like these mushrooms of silica growing on a boulder. and you can imagine our talks when we were exploring the cave. we were the first entering and discovering those unknown things, things like those monster eggs. and we were a bit scared because it was all a discovery, and we didn't want to find a dinosaur. we didn't find a dinosaur. anyway, actually, we know that this kind of formation, after several studies, we know that these kinds of formations are living organisms. they are bacterial colonies using silica to build mineral structures resembling stromatolites. stromatolites are some of the oldest forms of life that we can find on earth. and here in the tepuis, the interesting thing is that these bacteria colonies have evolved in complete isolation from the external surface, and without being in contact with humans. they have never been in contact with humans. so the implications for science are enormous, because here you could find, for example, microbes that could be useful to resolve diseases in medicine, or you could find even a new kind of material with unknown properties. and, in fact, we discovered in the cave a new mineral structure for science, which is rossiantonite, a phosphate-sulfate.so whatever you find in the cave, even a small cricket, has evolved in the dark in complete isolation. and, really, everything that you can feel in the cave are real connections between the biological and the mineralogical world. so as we explore this dark continent and discover its mineralogical and biological diversity and uniqueness, we will find probably clues about the origin of life on our planet and on the relationship and evolution of life in relationship with the mineral world. what seems only a dark, empty environment could be in reality a chest of wonders full of useful information.with a team of italian, venezuelan and brazilian speleologists, which is called la venta teraphosa, we will be back soon to latin america, because we want to explore other tepuis in the farthest areas of the amazon. there are still very unknown mountains, like marahuaca, which is almost 3,000 meters high above sea level, or aracà, which is in the upper region of rio negro in brazil. and we suppose that we could find there even bigger cave systems, and each one with its own undiscovered world.thank you. bruno giussani: thank you, francesco. give me that to start so we don't forget. francesco, you said we don't need to go to mars to find alien life, and indeed, last time we spoke, you were in sardinia and you were training european astronauts. so what do you, a speleologist, tell and teach to the astronauts?francesco sauro: yeah, we are — it's a program of training for not only european, but also nasa, roskosmos, jaxa astronauts, in a cave. so they stay in a cave for about one week in isolation. they have to work together in a real, real dangerous environment, and it's a real alien environment for them because it's unusual. it's always dark. they have to do science. they have a lot of tasks. and it's very similar to a journey to mars or the international space station.bg: in principle. fs: yes.bg: i want to go back to one of the pictures that was in your slide show, and it's just representative of the other photos —weren't those photos amazing? yeah?audience: yeah! fs: i have to thank the photographers from the team la venta, because all of those photos are from the photographers.bg: you bring, actually, photographers with you in the expedition. they're professionals, they're speleologists and photographers. but when i look at these pictures, i wonder: there is zero light down there, and yet they look incredibly well-exposed. how do you take these pictures? how do your colleagues, the photographers, take these pictures?fs: yeah. they are working in a darkroom, basically, so you can open the shutter of the camera and use the lights to paint the environment.bg: so you're basically —fs: yes. you can even keep the shutter open for one minute and then paint the environment. the final result is what you want to achieve.bg: you spray the environment with light and that's what you get. maybe we can try this at home someday, i don't know. bg: francesco, grazie. fs: grazie. <title = "Social services are broken. How we can fix them">
<tags = "['big problems', 'community', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Innovator and social entrepreneur">
i want to tell you three stories about the power of relationships to solve the deep and complex social problems of this century.you know, sometimes it seems like all these problems of poverty, inequality, ill health, unemployment, violence, addiction — they're right there in one person's life. so i want to tell you about someone like this that i know. i'm going to call her ella. ella lives in a british city on a run down estate. the shops are closed, the pub's gone, the playground's pretty desolate and never used, and inside ella's house, the tension is palpable and the noise levels are deafening. the tv's on at full volume. one of her sons is fighting with one of her daughters. another son, ryan, is keeping up this constant stream of abuse from the kitchen, and the dogs are locked behind the bedroom door and straining. ella is stuck. she has lived with crisis for 40 years. she knows nothing else, and she knows no way out. she's had a whole series of abusive partners, and, tragically, one of her children has been taken into care by social services. the three children that still live with her suffer from a whole range of problems, and none of them are in education. and ella says to me that she is repeating the cycle of her own mother's life before her.but when i met ella, there were 73 different services on offer for her and her family in the city where she lives, 73 different services run out of 24 departments in one city, and ella and her partners and her children were known to most of them. they think nothing of calling social services to try and mediate one of the many arguments that broke out. and the family home was visited on a regular basis by social workers, youth workers, a health officer, a housing officer, a home tutor and the local policemen. and the governments say that there are 100,000 families in britain today like ella's, struggling to break the cycle of economic, social and environmental deprivation. and they also say that managing this problem costs a quarter of a million pounds per family per year and yet nothing changes. none of these well-meaning visitors are making a difference.this is a chart we made in the same city with another family like ella's. this shows 30 years of intervention in that family's life. and just as with ella, not one of these interventions is part of an overall plan. there's no end goal in sight. none of the interventions are dealing with the underlying issues. these are just containment measures, ways of managing a problem. one of the policemen says to me, "look, i just deliver the message and then i leave."so, i've spent time living with families like ella's in different parts of the world, because i want to know: what can we learn from places where our social institutions just aren't working? i want to know what it feels like to live in ella's family. i want to know what's going on and what we can do differently.well, the first thing i learned is that cost is a really slippery concept. because when the government says that a family like ella's costs a quarter of a million pounds a year to manage, what it really means is that this system costs a quarter of a million pounds a year. because not one penny of this money actually touches ella's family in a way that makes a difference. instead, the system is just like this costly gyroscope that spins around the families, keeping them stuck at its heart, exactly where they are.and i also spent time with the frontline workers, and i learned that it is an impossible situation. so tom, who is the social worker for ella's 14-year-old son ryan, has to spend 86 percent of his time servicing the system: meetings with colleagues, filling out forms, more meetings with colleagues to discuss the forms, and maybe most shockingly, the 14 percent of the time he has to be with ryan is spent getting data and information for the system. so he says to ryan, "how often have you been smoking? have you been drinking? when did you go to school?" and this kind of interaction rules out the possibility of a normal conversation. it rules out the possibility of what's needed to build a relationship between tom and ryan.when we made this chart, the frontline workers, the professionals — they stared at it absolutely amazed. it snaked around the walls of their offices. so many hours, so well meant, but ultimately so futile. and there was this moment of absolute breakdown, and then of clarity: we had to work in a different way.so in a really brave step, the leaders of the city where ella lives agreed that we could start by reversing ryan's ratio. so everyone who came into contact with ella or a family like ella's would spend 80 percent of their time working with the families and only 20 percent servicing the system. and even more radically, the families would lead and they would decide who was in a best position to help them. so ella and another mother were asked to be part of an interview panel, to choose from amongst the existing professionals who would work with them. and many, many people wanted to join us, because you don't go into this kind of work to manage a system, you go in because you can and you want to make a difference.so ella and the mother asked everybody who came through the door, "what will you do when my son starts kicking me?" and so the first person who comes in says, "well, i'll look around for the nearest exit and i will back out very slowly, and if the noise is still going on, i'll call my supervisor." and the mothers go, "you're the system. get out of here!" and then the next person who comes is a policeman, and he says, "well, i'll tackle your son to the ground and then i'm not sure what i'll do." and the mothers say, "thank you." so, they chose professionals who confessed they didn't necessarily have the answers, who said — well, they weren't going to talk in jargon. they showed their human qualities and convinced the mothers that they would stick with them through thick and thin, even though they wouldn't be soft with them.so these new teams and the families were then given a sliver of the former budget, but they could spend the money in any way they chose. and so one of the families went out for supper. they went to mcdonald's and they sat down and they talked and they listened for the first time in a long time. another family asked the team if they would help them do up their home. and one mother took the money and she used it as a float to start a social enterprise.and in a really short space of time, something new started to grow: a relationship between the team and the workers. and then some remarkable changes took place. maybe it's not surprising that the journey for ella has had some big steps backwards as well as forwards. but today, she's completed an it training course, she has her first paid job, her children are back in school, and the neighbors, who previously just hoped this family would be moved anywhere except next door to them, are fine. they've made some new friendships. and all the same people have been involved in this transformation — same families, same workers. but the relationship between them has been supported to change.so i'm telling you about ella because i think that relationships are the critical resource we have in solving some of these intractable problems. but today, our relationships are all but written off by our politics, our social policies, our welfare institutions. and i've learned that this really has to change.so what do i mean by relationships? i'm talking about the simple human bonds between us, a kind of authentic sense of connection, of belonging, the bonds that make us happy, that support us to change, to be brave like ella and try something new. and, you know, it's no accident that those who run and work in the institutions that are supposed to support ella and her family don't talk about relationships, because relationships are expressly designed out of a welfare model that was drawn up in britain and exported around the world. the contemporaries of william beveridge, who was the architect of the first welfare state and the author of the beveridge report, had little faith in what they called the average sensual or emotional man. instead, they trusted this idea of the impersonal system and the bureaucrat who would be detached and work in this system. and the impact of beveridge on the way the modern state sees social issues just can't be underestimated. the beveridge report sold over 100,000 copies in the first weeks of publication alone. people queued in the rain on a november night to get hold of a copy, and it was read across the country, across the colonies, across europe, across the united states of america, and it had this huge impact on the way that welfare states were designed around the globe. the cultures, the bureaucracies, the institutions — they are global, and they've come to seem like common sense. they've become so ingrained in us, that actually we don't even see them anymore. and i think it's really important to say that in the 20th century, they were remarkably successful, these institutions. they led to longer lifespans, the eradication of mass disease, mass housing, almost universal education. but at the same time, beveridge sowed the seeds of today's challenges.so let me tell you a second story. what do you think today is a bigger killer than a lifetime of smoking? it's loneliness. according to government statistics, one person over 60 — one in three — doesn't speak to or see another person in a week. one person in 10, that's 850,000 people, doesn't speak to anyone else in a month. and we're not the only people with this problem; this problem touches the whole of the western world. and it's even more acute in countries like china, where a process of rapid urbanization, mass migration, has left older people alone in the villages. and so the services that beveridge designed and exported — they can't address this kind of problem. loneliness is like a collective relational challenge, and it can't be addressed by a traditional bureaucratic response.so some years ago, wanting to understand this problem, i started to work with a group of about 60 older people in south london, where i live. i went shopping, i played bingo, but mainly i was just observing and listening. i wanted to know what we could do differently. and if you ask them, people tell you they want two things. they want somebody to go up a ladder and change a light bulb, or to be there when they come out of hospital. they want on-demand, practical support. and they want to have fun. they want to go out, do interesting things with like-minded people, and make friends like we've all made friends at every stage of our lives. so we rented a phone line, hired a couple of handymen, and started a service we called "circle." and circle offers its local membership a toll-free 0 800 number that they can call on demand for any support. and people have called us for so many reasons. they've called because their pets are unwell, their dvd is broken, they've forgotten how to use their mobile phone, or maybe they are coming out of hospital and they want someone to be there. and circle also offers a rich social calendar — knitting, darts, museum tours, hot air ballooning — you name it. but here's the interesting thing, the really deep change: over time, the friendships that have formed have begun to replace the practical offer.so let me tell you about belinda. belinda's a circle member, and she was going into hospital for a hip operation, so she called her local circle to say they wouldn't see her for a bit. and damon, who runs the local circle, calls her back and says, "how can i help?" and belinda says, "oh no, i'm fine — jocelyn is doing the shopping, tony's doing the gardening, melissa and joe are going to come in and cook and chat." so five circle members had organized themselves to take care of belinda. and belinda's 80, although she says that she feels 25 inside, but she also says that she felt stuck and pretty down when she joined circle. but the simple act of encouraging her to come along to that first event led to a process where natural friendships formed, friendships that today are replacing the need for expensive services. it's relationships that are making the difference.so i think that three factors have converged that enable us to put relationships at the heart and center of how we solve social problems today. firstly, the nature of the problems — they've changed, and they require different solutions. secondly, the cost, human as much as financial, of doing business as usual. and thirdly, technology.i've talked about the first two factors. it's technology that enables these approaches to scale and potentially now support thousands of people. so the technology we've used is really simple, it's made up of available things like databases, mobile phones. circle has got this very simple system that underpins it, enables a small local team to support a membership of up to a thousand. and you can contrast this with a neighborhood organization of the 1970s, when this kind of scale just wasn't possible, neither was the quality or the longevity that the spine of technology can provide.so it's relationships underpinned by technology that can turn the beveridge models on their heads. the beveridge models are all about institutions with finite resources, anonymously managing access. in my work at the front line, i've seen again and again how up to 80 percent of resource is spent keeping people out. so professionals have to administer these increasingly complex forms of administration that are basically about stopping people accessing the service or managing the queue. and circle, like the relational services that we and others have designed, inverts this logic. what it says is, the more people, the more relationships, the stronger the solution. so i want to tell you my third and final story, which is about unemployment. in britain, as in most places in the world, our welfare states were primarily designed to get people into work, to educate them for this, and to keep them healthy. but here, too, the systems are failing. and so the response has been to try and make these old systems even more efficient and transactional — to speed up processing times, divide people into ever-smaller categories, try and target services at them more efficiently — in other words, the very opposite of relational.but guess how most people find work today? through word of mouth. it turns out that in britain today, most new jobs are not advertised. so it's friends that tell you about a job, it's friends that recommend you for a job, and it's a rich and diverse social network that helps you find work. maybe some of you here this evening are thinking, "but i found my job through an advert," but if you think back, it was probably a friend that showed you the ad and then encouraged you to apply. but not surprisingly, people who perhaps most need this rich and diverse network are those who are most isolated from it.so knowing this, and also knowing about the costs and failure of current systems, we designed something new with relationships at its heart. we designed a service that encourages people to meet up, people in and out of work, to work together in structured ways and try new opportunities. and, well, it's very hard to compare the results of these new systems with the old transactional models, but it looks like, with our first 1,000 members, we outperformed existing services by a factor of three, at a fraction of the cost. and here, too, we've used technology, but not to network people in the way that a social platform would do. we've used it to bring people face to face and connect them with each other, building real relationships and supporting people to find work.at the end of his life, in 1948, beveridge wrote a third report. and in it he said he had made a dreadful mistake. he had left people and their communities out. and this omission, he said, led to seeing people, and people starting to see themselves, within the categories of the bureaucracies and the institutions. and human relationships were already withering. but unfortunately, this third report was much less read than beveridge's earlier work.but today, we need to bring people and their communities back into the heart of the way we design new systems and new services, in an approach that i call "relational welfare." we need to leave behind these old, transactional, unsuitable, outdated models, and we need to adopt instead the shared collective relational responses that can support a family like ella's, that can address an issue like loneliness, that can support people into work and up the skills curve in a modern labor market, that can also address challenges of education, of health care systems, and so many more of those problems that are pressing on our societies. it is all about relationships. relationships are the critical resource we have.thank you. <title = "How I teach kids to love science">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'collaboration', 'design', 'education', 'environment', 'global issues', 'green', 'innovation', 'invention', 'oceans', 'water']">
<occupation = "Inventor, environmentalist, educator">
when i was a kid, my parents would tell me, "you can make a mess, but you have to clean up after yourself." so freedom came with responsibility. but my imagination would take me to all these wonderful places, where everything was possible. so i grew up in a bubble of innocence — or a bubble of ignorance, i should say, because adults would lie to us to protect us from the ugly truth. and growing up, i found out that adults make a mess, and they're not very good at cleaning up after themselves.fast forward, i am an adult now, and i teach citizen science and invention at the hong kong harbour school. and it doesn't take too long before my students walk on a beach and stumble upon piles of trash. so as good citizens, we clean up the beaches — and no, he is not drinking alcohol, and if he is, i did not give it to him. and so it's sad to say, but today more than 80 percent of the oceans have plastic in them. it's a horrifying fact. and in past decades, we've been taking those big ships out and those big nets, and we collect those plastic bits that we look at under a microscope, and we sort them, and then we put this data onto a map. but that takes forever, it's very expensive, and so it's quite risky to take those big boats out.so with my students, ages six to 15, we've been dreaming of inventing a better way. so we've transformed our tiny hong kong classroom into a workshop. and so we started building this small workbench, with different heights, so even really short kids can participate. and let me tell you, kids with power tools are awesome and safe. not really. and so, back to plastic. we collect this plastic and we grind it to the size we find it in the ocean, which is very small because it breaks down. and so this is how we work. i let the imaginations of my students run wild. and my job is to try to collect the best of each kid's idea and try to combine it into something that hopefully would work. and so we have agreed that instead of collecting plastic bits, we are going to collect only the data. so we're going to get an image of the plastic with a robot — so robots, kids get very excited. and the next thing we do — we do what we call "rapid prototyping." we are so rapid at prototyping that the lunch is still in the lunchbox when we're hacking it. and we hack table lamps and webcams, into plumbing fixtures and we assemble that into a floating robot that will be slowly moving through water and through the plastic that we have there — and this is the image that we get in the robot. so we see the plastic pieces floating slowly through the sensor, and the computer on board will process this image, and measure the size of each particle, so we have a rough estimate of how much plastic there is in the water.so we documented this invention step by step on a website for inventors called instructables, in the hope that somebody would make it even better.what was really cool about this project was that the students saw a local problem, and boom — they are trying to immediately address it.[i can investigate my local problem]but my students in hong kong are hyperconnected kids. and they watch the news, they watch the internet, and they came across this image. this was a child, probably under 10, cleaning up an oil spill bare-handed, in the sundarbans, which is the world's largest mangrove forest in bangladesh. so they were very shocked, because this is the water they drink, this is the water they bathe in, this is the water they fish in — this is the place where they live. and also you can see the water is brown, the mud is brown and oil is brown, so when everything is mixed up, it's really hard to see what's in the water. but, there's a technology that's rather simple, that's called spectrometry, that allows you see what's in the water. so we built a rough prototype of a spectrometer, and you can shine light through different substances that produce different spectrums, so that can help you identify what's in the water. so we packed this prototype of a sensor, and we shipped it to bangladesh. so what was cool about this project was that beyond addressing a local problem, or looking at a local problem, my students used their empathy and their sense of being creative to help, remotely, other kids.[i can investigate a remote problem]so i was very compelled by doing the second experiments, and i wanted to take it even further — maybe addressing an even harder problem, and it's also closer to my heart.so i'm half japanese and half french, and maybe you remember in 2011 there was a massive earthquake in japan. it was so violent that it triggered several giant waves — they are called tsunami — and those tsunami destroyed many cities on the eastern coast of japan. more than 14,000 people died in an instant. also, it damaged the nuclear power plant of fukushima, the nuclear power plant just by the water. and today, i read the reports and an average of 300 tons are leaking from the nuclear power plant into the pacific ocean. and today the whole pacific ocean has traces of contamination of cesium-137. if you go outside on the west coast, you can measure fukushima everywhere. but if you look at the map, it can look like most of the radioactivity has been washed away from the japanese coast, and most of it is now — it looks like it's safe, it's blue. well, reality is a bit more complicated than this.so i've been going to fukushima every year since the accident, and i measure independently and with other scientists, on land, in the river — and this time we wanted to take the kids. so of course we didn't take the kids, the parents wouldn't allow that to happen. but every night we would report to "mission control" — different masks they're wearing. it could look like they didn't take the work seriously, but they really did because they're going to have to live with radioactivity their whole life. and so what we did with them is that we'd discuss the data we collected that day, and talk about where we should be going next — strategy, itinerary, etc... and to do this, we built a very rough topographical map of the region around the nuclear power plant. and so we built the elevation map, we sprinkled pigments to represent real-time data for radioactivity, and we sprayed water to simulate the rainfall. and with this we could see that the radioactive dust was washing from the top of the mountain into the river system, and leaking into the ocean. so it was a rough estimate.but with this in mind, we organized this expedition, which was the closest civilians have been to the nuclear power plant. we are sailing 1.5 kilometers away from the nuclear power plant, and with the help of the local fisherman, we are collecting sediment from the seabed with a custom sediment sampler we've invented and built. we pack the sediment into small bags, we then dispatch them to hundreds of small bags that we send to different universities, and we produce the map of the seabed radioactivity, especially in estuaries where the fish will reproduce, and i will hope that we will have improved the safety of the local fishermen and of your favorite sushi. you can see a progression here — we've gone from a local problem to a remote problem to a global problem. and it's been super exciting to work at these different scales, with also very simple, open-source technologies. but at the same time, it's been increasingly frustrating because we have only started to measure the damage that we have done. we haven't even started to try to solve the problems. and so i wonder if we should just take a leap and try to invent better ways to do all these things.and so the classroom started to feel a little bit small, so we found an industrial site in hong kong, and we turned it into the largest mega-space focused on social and environmental impact. it's in central hong kong, and it's a place we can work with wood, metal, chemistry, a bit of biology, a bit of optics, basically you can build pretty much everything there. and its a place where adults and kids can play together. it's a place where kids' dreams can come true, with the help of adults, and where adults can be kids again.student: acceleration! acceleration!cesar harada: we're asking questions such as, can we invent the future of mobility with renewable energy? for example. or, can we help the mobility of the aging population by transforming very standard wheelchairs into cool, electric vehicles?so plastic, oil and radioactivity are horrible, horrible legacies, but the very worst legacy that we can leave our children is lies. we can no longer afford to shield the kids from the ugly truth because we need their imagination to invent the solutions.so citizen scientists, makers, dreamers — we must prepare the next generation that cares about the environment and people, and that can actually do something about it.thank you. <title = "The enchanting music of sign language">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'art', 'communication', 'composing', 'language', 'music', 'sound']">
<occupation = "Sound artist, composer">
interpreter: piano, "p," is my favorite musical symbol. it means to play softly. if you're playing a musical instrument and you notice a "p" in the score, you need to play softer. two p's — even softer. four p's — extremely soft. this is my drawing of a p-tree, which demonstrates no matter how many thousands upon thousands of p's there may be, you'll never reach complete silence. that's my current definition of silence: a very obscure sound.i'd like to share a little bit about the history of american sign language, asl, plus a bit of my own background. french sign language was brought to america during the early 1800s, and as time went by, mixed with local signs, it evolved into the language we know today as asl. so it has a history of about 200 years.i was born deaf, and i was taught to believe that sound wasn't a part of my life. and i believed it to be true. yet, i realize now that that wasn't the case at all. sound was very much a part of my life, really, on my mind every day. as a deaf person living in a world of sound, it's as if i was living in a foreign country, blindly following its rules, customs, behaviors and norms without ever questioning them.so how is it that i understand sound? well, i watch how people behave and respond to sound. you people are like my loudspeakers, and amplify sound. i learn and mirror that behavior. at the same time, i've learned that i create sound, and i've seen how people respond to me. thus i've learned, for example ... "don't slam the door!" "don't make too much noise when you're eating from the potato-chip bag!" "don't burp, and when you're eating, make sure you don't scrape your utensils on the plate." all of these things i term "sound etiquette." maybe i think about sound etiquette more than the average hearing person does. i'm hyper-vigilant around sound. and i'm always waiting in eager nervous anticipation around sound, about what's to come next.hence, this drawing. tbd, to be decided. tbc, to be continued. tba, to be announced. and you notice the staff — there are no notes contained in the lines. that's because the lines already contain sound through the subtle smudges and smears.in deaf culture, movement is equivalent to sound. this is a sign for "staff" in asl. a typical staff contains five lines. yet for me, signing it with my thumb sticking up like that doesn't feel natural. that's why you'll notice in my drawings, i stick to four lines on paper.in the year 2008, i had the opportunity to travel to berlin, germany, for an artist residency there. prior to this time, i had been working as a painter. during this summer, i visited different museums and gallery spaces, and as i went from one place to the next, i noticed there was no visual art there. at that time, sound was trending, and this struck me ... there was no visual art, everything was auditory.now sound has come into my art territory. is it going to further distance me from art? i realized that doesn't have to be the case at all. i actually know sound. i know it so well that it doesn't have to be something just experienced through the ears. it could be felt tactually, or experienced as a visual, or even as an idea.so i decided to reclaim ownership of sound and to put it into my art practice. and everything that i had been taught regarding sound, i decided to do away with and unlearn. i started creating a new body of work. and when i presented this to the art community, i was blown away with the amount of support and attention i received. i realized: sound is like money, power, control — social currency. in the back of my mind, i've always felt that sound was your thing, a hearing person's thing. and sound is so powerful that it could either disempower me and my artwork, or it could empower me. i chose to be empowered.there's a massive culture around spoken language. and just because i don't use my literal voice to communicate, in society's eyes it's as if i don't have a voice at all. so i need to work with individuals who can support me as an equal and become my voice. and that way, i'm able to maintain relevancy in society today.so at school, at work and institutions, i work with many different asl interpreters. and their voice becomes my voice and identity. they help me to be heard. and their voices hold value and currency. ironically, by borrowing out their voices, i'm able to maintain a temporary form of currency, kind of like taking out a loan with a very high interest rate. if i didn't continue this practice, i feel that i could just fade off into oblivion and not maintain any form of social currency.so with sound as my new art medium, i delved into the world of music. and i was surprised to see the similarities between music and asl. for example, a musical note cannot be fully captured and expressed on paper. and the same holds true for a concept in asl. they're both highly spatial and highly inflected — meaning that subtle changes can affect the entire meaning of both signs and sounds.i'd like to share with you a piano metaphor, to have you have a better understanding of how asl works. so, envision a piano. asl is broken down into many different grammatical parameters. if you assign a different parameter to each finger as you play the piano — such as facial expression, body movement, speed, hand shape and so on, as you play the piano — english is a linear language, as if one key is being pressed at a time. however, asl is more like a chord — all 10 fingers need to come down simultaneously to express a clear concept or idea in asl. if just one of those keys were to change the chord, it would create a completely different meaning. the same applies to music in regards to pitch, tone and volume. in asl, by playing around with these different grammatical parameters, you can express different ideas.for example, take the sign to-look-at. this is the sign to-look-at. i'm looking at you. staring at you. oh — busted. uh-oh. what are you looking at? aw, stop. i then started thinking, "what if i was to look at asl through a musical lens?" if i was to create a sign and repeat it over and over, it could become like a piece of visual music. for example, this is the sign for "day," as the sun rises and sets. this is "all day." if i was to repeat it and slow it down, visually it looks like a piece of music. all ... day. i feel the same holds true for "all night." "all night." this is all-night, represented in this drawing. and this led me to thinking about three different kinds of nights: "last night," "overnight," (sings) "all night long." i feel like the third one has a lot more musicality than the other two. this represents how time is expressed in asl and how the distance from your body can express the changes in time. for example, 1h is one hand, 2h is two hand, present tense happens closest and in front of the body, future is in front of the body and the past is to your back. so, the first example is "a long time ago." then "past," "used to" and the last one, which is my favorite, with the very romantic and dramatic notion to it, "once upon a time." "common time" is a musical term with a specific time signature of four beats per measure. yet when i see the word "common time," what automatically comes to mind for me is "at the same time." so notice rh: right hand, lh: left hand. we have the staff across the head and the chest.[head: rh, flash claw][common time][chest: lh, flash claw]i'm now going to demonstrate a hand shape called the "flash claw." can you please follow along with me? everybody, hands up. now we're going to do it in both the head and the chest, kind of like "common time" or at the same time. yes, got it. that means "to fall in love" in international [sign]. international [sign], as a note, is a visual tool to help communicate across cultures and sign languages around the world.the second one i'd like to demonstrate is this — please follow along with me again. and now this. this is "colonization" in asl. now the third — please follow along again. and again. this is "enlightenment" in asl. so let's do all three together. "fall in love," "colonization" and "enlightenment." good job, everyone. notice how all three signs are very similar, they all happen at the head and the chest, but they convey quite different meanings.so it's amazing to see how asl is alive and thriving, just like music is. however, in this day and age, we live in a very audio-centric world. and just because asl has no sound to it, it automatically holds no social currency. we need to start thinking harder about what defines social currency and allow asl to develop its own form of currency — without sound. and this could possibly be a step to lead to a more inclusive society. and maybe people will understand that you don't need to be deaf to learn asl, nor do you have to be hearing to learn music.asl is such a rich treasure that i'd like you to have the same experience. and i'd like to invite you to open your ears, to open your eyes, take part in our culture and experience our visual language. and you never know, you might just fall in love with us. thank you.denise kahler-braaten: hey, that's me. <title = "Art that lets you talk back to NSA spies">
<tags = "['Europe', 'Internet', 'Surveillance', 'art', 'communication', 'democracy', 'government', 'intelligence', 'politics', 'security', 'technology', 'telecom']">
<occupation = "Artist">
a year ago, we were invited by the swiss embassy in berlin to present our art projects. we are used to invitations, but this invitation really thrilled us. the swiss embassy in berlin is special. it is the only old building in the government district that was not destroyed during the second world war, and it sits right next to the federal chancellery. no one is closer to chancellor merkel than the swiss diplomats. the government district in berlin also contains the reichstag — germany's parliament — and the brandenburg gate, and right next to the gate there are other embassies, in particular the us and the british embassy.although germany is an advanced democracy, citizens are limited in their constitutional rights in its government district. the right of assembly and the right to demonstrate are restricted there. and this is interesting from an artistic point of view. the opportunities to exercise participation and to express oneself are always bound to a certain order and always subject to a specific regulation. with an awareness of the dependencies of these regulations, we can gain a new perspective. the given terms and conditions shape our perception, our actions and our lives.and this is crucial in another context. over the last couple of years, we learned that from the roofs of the us and the british embassy, the secret services have been listening to the entire district, including the mobile phone of angela merkel. the antennas of the british gchq are hidden in a white cylindrical radome, while the listening post of the american nsa is covered by radio transparent screens.but how to address these hidden and disguised forces? with my colleague, christoph wachter, we accepted the invitation of the swiss embassy. and we used this opportunity to exploit the specific situation.if people are spying on us, it stands to reason that they have to listen to what we are saying. on the roof of the swiss embassy, we installed a series of antennas. they weren't as sophisticated as those used by the americans and the british. they were makeshift can antennas, not camouflaged but totally obvious and visible. the academy of arts joined the project, and so we built another large antenna on their rooftop, exactly between the listening posts of the nsa and the gchq. never have we been observed in such detail while building an art installation. a helicopter circled over our heads with a camera registering each and every move we made, and on the roof of the us embassy, security officers patrolled. although the government district is governed by a strict police order, there are no specific laws relating to digital communication. our installation was therefore perfectly legal, and the swiss ambassador informed chancellor merkel about it. we named the project "can you hear me?" the antennas created an open and free wi-fi communication network in which anyone who wanted to would be able to participate using any wi-fi-enabled device without any hindrance, and be able to send messages to those listening on the frequencies that were being intercepted. text messages, voice chat, file sharing — anything could be sent anonymously. and people did communicate. over 15,000 messages were sent. here are some examples."hello world, hello berlin, hello nsa, hello gchq.""nsa agents, do the right thing! blow the whistle!""this is the nsa. in god we trust. all others we track!!!!!" "#@nonymous is watching #nsa #gchq - we are part of your organizations. # expect us. we will #shutdown""this is the nsa's achilles heel. open networks.""agents, what twisted story of yourself will you tell your grandchildren?""@nsa my neighbors are noisy. please send a drone strike." "make love, not cyberwar."we invited the embassies and the government departments to participate in the open network, too, and to our surprise, they did. files appeared on the network, including classified documents leaked from the parliamentary investigation commission, which highlights that the free exchange and discussion of vital information is starting to become difficult, even for members of a parliament. we also organized guided tours to experience and sound out the power constellations on-site. the tours visited the restricted zones around the embassies, and we discussed the potential and the highlights of communication.if we become aware of the constellation, the terms and conditions of communication, it not only broadens our horizon, it allows us to look behind the regulations that limit our worldview, our specific social, political or aesthetic conventions.let's look at an actual example. the fate of people living in the makeshift settlements on the outskirts of paris is hidden and faded from view. it's a vicious circle. it's not poverty, not racism, not exclusion that are new. what is new is how these realities are hidden and how people are made invisible in an age of global and overwhelming communication and exchange. such makeshift settlements are considered illegal, and therefore those living in them don't have a chance of making their voices heard. on the contrary, every time they appear, every time they risk becoming visible, merely gives grounds for further persecution, expulsion and suppression. what interested us was how we could come to know this hidden side. we were searching for an interface and we found one. it's not a digital interface, but a physical one: it's a hotel.we named the project "hotel gelem." together with roma families, we created several hotel gelems in europe, for example, in freiburg in germany, in montreuil near paris, and also in the balkans. these are real hotels. people can stay there. but they aren't a commercial enterprise. they are a symbol. you can go online and ask for a personal invitation to come and live for a few days in the hotel gelem, in their homes, eating, working and living with the roma families. here, the roma families are not the travelers; the visitors are. here, the roma families are not a minority; the visitors are.the point is not to make judgments, but rather to find out about the context that determines these disparate and seemingly insurmountable contradictions. in the world of globalization, the continents are drifting closer to each other. cultures, goods and people are in permanent exchange, but at the same time, the gap between the world of the privileged and the world of the excluded is growing.we were recently in australia. for us, it was no problem to enter the country. we have european passports, visas and air tickets. but asylum seekers who arrive by boat in australia are deported or taken to prison. the interception of the boats and the disappearance of the people into the detention system are veiled by the australian authorities. these procedures are declared to be secret military operations. after dramatic escapes from crisis zones and war zones, men, women and children are detained by australia without trial, sometimes for years.during our stay, however, we managed to reach out and work with asylum seekers who were imprisoned, despite strict screening and isolation. from these contexts was born an installation in the art space of the queensland university of technology in brisbane.on the face of it, it was a very simple installation. on the floor, a stylized compass gave the direction to each immigration detention center, accompanied by the distance and the name of the immigration facility. but the exhibition step came in the form of connectivity. above every floor marking, there was a headset. visitors were offered the opportunity to talk directly to a refugee who was or had been imprisoned in a specific detention facility and engage in a personal conversation. in the protected context of the art exhibition, asylum seekers felt free to talk about themselves, their story and their situation, without fear of consequences. visitors immersed themselves in long conversations about families torn apart, about dramatic escapes from war zones, about suicide attempts, about the fate of children in detention. emotions ran deep. many wept. several revisited the exhibition. it was a powerful experience.europe is now facing a stream of migrants. the situation for the asylum seekers is made worse by contradictory policies and the temptation of militarized responses. we have also established communication systems in remote refugee centers in switzerland and greece. they are all about providing basic information — weather forecasts, legal information, guidance. but they are significant. information on the internet that could ensure survival along dangerous routes is being censored, and the provision of such information is becoming increasingly criminalized.this brings us back to our network and to the antennas on the roof of the swiss embassy in berlin and the "can you hear me?" project. we should not take it for granted to be boundlessly connected. we should start making our own connections, fighting for this idea of an equal and globally interconnected world. this is essential to overcome our speechlessness and the separation provoked by rival political forces. it is only in truly exposing ourselves to the transformative power of this experience that we can overcome prejudice and exclusion.thank you. bruno giussani: thank you, mathias. the other half of your artistic duo is also here. christoph wachter, come onstage. first, tell me just a detail: the name of the hotel is not a random name. gelem means something specific in the roma language.mathias jud: yes, "gelem, gelem" is the title of the romani hymn, the official, and it means "i went a long way."bg: that's just to add the detail to your talk. but you two traveled to the island of lesbos very recently, you're just back a couple of days ago, in greece, where thousands of refugees are arriving and have been arriving over the last few months. what did you see there and what did you do there?christoph wachter: well, lesbos is one of the greek islands close to turkey, and during our stay, many asylum seekers arrived by boat on overcrowded dinghies, and after landing, they were left completely on their own. they are denied many services. for example, they are not allowed to buy a bus ticket or to rent a hotel room, so many families literally sleep in the streets. and we installed networks there to allow basic communication, because i think, i believe, it's not only that we have to speak about the refugees, i think we need to start talking to them. and by doing so, we can realize that it is about human beings, about their lives and their struggle to survive.bg: and allow them to talk as well. christoph, thank you for coming to ted. mathias, thank you for coming to ted and sharing your story. <title = "How to stay calm when you know you'll be stressed">
<tags = "['brain', 'cognitive science', 'health', 'medicine', 'memory', 'mental health', 'neuroscience']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist">
a few years ago, i broke into my own house. i had just driven home, it was around midnight in the dead of montreal winter, i had been visiting my friend, jeff, across town, and the thermometer on the front porch read minus 40 degrees — and don't bother asking if that's celsius or fahrenheit, minus 40 is where the two scales meet — it was very cold. and as i stood on the front porch fumbling in my pockets, i found i didn't have my keys. in fact, i could see them through the window, lying on the dining room table where i had left them. so i quickly ran around and tried all the other doors and windows, and they were locked tight. i thought about calling a locksmith — at least i had my cellphone, but at midnight, it could take a while for a locksmith to show up, and it was cold. i couldn't go back to my friend jeff's house for the night because i had an early flight to europe the next morning, and i needed to get my passport and my suitcase.so, desperate and freezing cold, i found a large rock and i broke through the basement window, cleared out the shards of glass, i crawled through, i found a piece of cardboard and taped it up over the opening, figuring that in the morning, on the way to the airport, i could call my contractor and ask him to fix it. this was going to be expensive, but probably no more expensive than a middle-of-the-night locksmith, so i figured, under the circumstances, i was coming out even.now, i'm a neuroscientist by training and i know a little bit about how the brain performs under stress. it releases cortisol that raises your heart rate, it modulates adrenaline levels and it clouds your thinking. so the next morning, when i woke up on too little sleep, worrying about the hole in the window, and a mental note that i had to call my contractor, and the freezing temperatures, and the meetings i had upcoming in europe, and, you know, with all the cortisol in my brain, my thinking was cloudy, but i didn't know it was cloudy because my thinking was cloudy. and it wasn't until i got to the airport check-in counter, that i realized i didn't have my passport. so i raced home in the snow and ice, 40 minutes, got my passport, raced back to the airport, i made it just in time, but they had given away my seat to someone else, so i got stuck in the back of the plane, next to the bathrooms, in a seat that wouldn't recline, on an eight-hour flight. well, i had a lot of time to think during those eight hours and no sleep. and i started wondering, are there things that i can do, systems that i can put into place, that will prevent bad things from happening? or at least if bad things happen, will minimize the likelihood of it being a total catastrophe. so i started thinking about that, but my thoughts didn't crystallize until about a month later. i was having dinner with my colleague, danny kahneman, the nobel prize winner, and i somewhat embarrassedly told him about having broken my window, and, you know, forgotten my passport, and danny shared with me that he'd been practicing something called prospective hindsight. it's something that he had gotten from the psychologist gary klein, who had written about it a few years before, also called the pre-mortem. now, you all know what the postmortem is. whenever there's a disaster, a team of experts come in and they try to figure out what went wrong, right? well, in the pre-mortem, danny explained, you look ahead and you try to figure out all the things that could go wrong, and then you try to figure out what you can do to prevent those things from happening, or to minimize the damage.so what i want to talk to you about today are some of the things we can do in the form of a pre-mortem. some of them are obvious, some of them are not so obvious. i'll start with the obvious ones.around the home, designate a place for things that are easily lost. now, this sounds like common sense, and it is, but there's a lot of science to back this up, based on the way our spatial memory works. there's a structure in the brain called the hippocampus, that evolved over tens of thousands of years, to keep track of the locations of important things — where the well is, where fish can be found, that stand of fruit trees, where the friendly and enemy tribes live. the hippocampus is the part of the brain that in london taxicab drivers becomes enlarged. it's the part of the brain that allows squirrels to find their nuts. and if you're wondering, somebody actually did the experiment where they cut off the olfactory sense of the squirrels, and they could still find their nuts. they weren't using smell, they were using the hippocampus, this exquisitely evolved mechanism in the brain for finding things. but it's really good for things that don't move around much, not so good for things that move around. so this is why we lose car keys and reading glasses and passports. so in the home, designate a spot for your keys — a hook by the door, maybe a decorative bowl. for your passport, a particular drawer. for your reading glasses, a particular table. if you designate a spot and you're scrupulous about it, your things will always be there when you look for them.what about travel? take a cell phone picture of your credit cards, your driver's license, your passport, mail it to yourself so it's in the cloud. if these things are lost or stolen, you can facilitate replacement.now these are some rather obvious things. remember, when you're under stress, the brain releases cortisol. cortisol is toxic, and it causes cloudy thinking. so part of the practice of the pre-mortem is to recognize that under stress you're not going to be at your best, and you should put systems in place.and there's perhaps no more stressful a situation than when you're confronted with a medical decision to make. and at some point, all of us are going to be in that position, where we have to make a very important decision about the future of our medical care or that of a loved one, to help them with a decision.and so i want to talk about that. and i'm going to talk about a very particular medical condition. but this stands as a proxy for all kinds of medical decision-making, and indeed for financial decision-making, and social decision-making — any kind of decision you have to make that would benefit from a rational assessment of the facts.so suppose you go to your doctor and the doctor says, "i just got your lab work back, your cholesterol's a little high." now, you all know that high cholesterol is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, heart attack, stroke. and so you're thinking having high cholesterol isn't the best thing, and so the doctor says, "you know, i'd like to give you a drug that will help you lower your cholesterol, a statin." and you've probably heard of statins, you know that they're among the most widely prescribed drugs in the world today, you probably even know people who take them. and so you're thinking, "yeah! give me the statin."but there's a question you should ask at this point, a statistic you should ask for that most doctors don't like talking about, and pharmaceutical companies like talking about even less. it's for the number needed to treat. now, what is this, the nnt? it's the number of people that need to take a drug or undergo a surgery or any medical procedure before one person is helped. and you're thinking, what kind of crazy statistic is that? the number should be one. my doctor wouldn't prescribe something to me if it's not going to help. but actually, medical practice doesn't work that way. and it's not the doctor's fault, if it's anybody's fault, it's the fault of scientists like me. we haven't figured out the underlying mechanisms well enough. but glaxosmithkline estimates that 90 percent of the drugs work in only 30 to 50 percent of the people. so the number needed to treat for the most widely prescribed statin, what do you suppose it is? how many people have to take it before one person is helped? 300. this is according to research by research practitioners jerome groopman and pamela hartzband, independently confirmed by bloomberg.com. i ran through the numbers myself. 300 people have to take the drug for a year before one heart attack, stroke or other adverse event is prevented.now you're probably thinking, "well, ok, one in 300 chance of lowering my cholesterol. why not, doc? give me the prescription anyway." but you should ask at this point for another statistic, and that is, "tell me about the side effects." right? so for this particular drug, the side effects occur in five percent of the patients. and they include terrible things — debilitating muscle and joint pain, gastrointestinal distress — but now you're thinking, "five percent, not very likely it's going to happen to me, i'll still take the drug." but wait a minute. remember under stress you're not thinking clearly. so think about how you're going to work through this ahead of time, so you don't have to manufacture the chain of reasoning on the spot. 300 people take the drug, right? one person's helped, five percent of those 300 have side effects, that's 15 people. you're 15 times more likely to be harmed by the drug than you are to be helped by the drug.now, i'm not saying whether you should take the statin or not. i'm just saying you should have this conversation with your doctor. medical ethics requires it, it's part of the principle of informed consent. you have the right to have access to this kind of information to begin the conversation about whether you want to take the risks or not.now you might be thinking i've pulled this number out of the air for shock value, but in fact it's rather typical, this number needed to treat. for the most widely performed surgery on men over the age of 50, removal of the prostate for cancer, the number needed to treat is 49. that's right, 49 surgeries are done for every one person who's helped. and the side effects in that case occur in 50 percent of the patients. they include impotence, erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence, rectal tearing, fecal incontinence. and if you're lucky, and you're one of the 50 percent who has these, they'll only last for a year or two.so the idea of the pre-mortem is to think ahead of time to the questions that you might be able to ask that will push the conversation forward. you don't want to have to manufacture all of this on the spot. and you also want to think about things like quality of life. because you have a choice oftentimes, do you i want a shorter life that's pain-free, or a longer life that might have a great deal of pain towards the end? these are things to talk about and think about now, with your family and your loved ones. you might change your mind in the heat of the moment, but at least you're practiced with this kind of thinking.remember, our brain under stress releases cortisol, and one of the things that happens at that moment is a whole bunch on systems shut down. there's an evolutionary reason for this. face-to-face with a predator, you don't need your digestive system, or your libido, or your immune system, because if you're body is expending metabolism on those things and you don't react quickly, you might become the lion's lunch, and then none of those things matter. unfortunately, one of the things that goes out the window during those times of stress is rational, logical thinking, as danny kahneman and his colleagues have shown. so we need to train ourselves to think ahead to these kinds of situations.i think the important point here is recognizing that all of us are flawed. we all are going to fail now and then. the idea is to think ahead to what those failures might be, to put systems in place that will help minimize the damage, or to prevent the bad things from happening in the first place.getting back to that snowy night in montreal, when i got back from my trip, i had my contractor install a combination lock next to the door, with a key to the front door in it, an easy to remember combination. and i have to admit, i still have piles of mail that haven't been sorted, and piles of emails that i haven't gone through. so i'm not completely organized, but i see organization as a gradual process, and i'm getting there.thank you very much. <title = "How data from a crisis text line is saving lives">
<tags = "['activism', 'big problems', 'communication', 'data', 'pain', 'policy', 'society', 'technology', 'youth']">
<occupation = "Activist">
a girl i've never met before changed my life and the life of thousands of other people. i'm the ceo of dosomething.org. it's one of the largest organizations in the world for young people. in fact it's bigger than the boy scouts in the united states. and we're not homophobic. and it's true — the way we communicate with young people is by text, because that's how young people communicate. so we'll run over 200 campaigns this year, things like collecting peanut butter for food pantries, or making valentine's day cards for senior citizens who are homebound. and we'll text them. and we'll have a 97 percent open rate. it'll over-index hispanic and urban. we collected 200,000 jars of peanut butter and over 365,000 valentine's day cards. this is big scale. ok — but there's one weird side effect. every time we send out a text message, we get back a few dozen text messages having nothing to do with peanut butter or hunger or senior citizens — but text messages about being bullied, text messages about being addicted to pot. and the worst message we ever got said exactly this: "he won't stop raping me. it's my dad. he told me not to tell anyone. are you there?"we couldn't believe this was happening. we couldn't believe that something so horrific could happen to a human being, and that she would share it with us — something so intimate, so personal. and we realized we had to stop triaging this and we had to build a crisis text line for these people in pain. so we launched crisis text line, very quietly, in chicago and el paso — just a few thousand people in each market. and in four months, we were in all 295 area codes in america. just to put that into perspective, that's zero marketing and faster growth than when facebook first launched. text is unbelievably private. no one hears you talking. so we spike everyday at lunch time — kids are sitting at the lunch table and you think that she's texting the cute boy across the hall, but she's actually texting us about her bulimia. and we don't get the word "like" or "um" or hyperventilating or crying. we just get facts.we get things like, "i want to die. i have a bottle of pills on the desk in front of me." and so the crisis counselor says, "how about you put those pills in the drawer while we text?" and they go back and forth for a while. and the crisis counselor gets the girl to give her her address, because if you're texting a text line, you want help. so she gets the address and the counselor triggers an active rescue while they're texting back and forth. and then it goes quiet — 23 minutes with no response from this girl. and the next message that comes in says — it's the mom — "i had no idea, and i was in the house, we're in an ambulance on our way to the hospital." as a mom that one just — the next message comes a month later. "i just got out of the hospital. i was diagnosed as bipolar, and i think i'm going to be ok." i would love to tell you that that's an unusual exchange, but we're doing on average 2.41 active rescues a day. thirty percent of our text messages are about suicide and depression — huge. the beautiful thing about crisis text line is that these are strangers counseling other strangers on the most intimate issues, and getting them from hot moments to cold moments. it's exciting, and i will tell you that we have done a total of more than 6.5 million text messages in less than two years. but the thing that really gets me hot and sweaty about this, the thing that really gets me psyched is the data: 6.5 million messages — that's the volume, velocity and variety to provide a really juicy corpus. we can do things like predictive work. we can do all kinds of conclusions and learnings from that data set. so we can be better, and the world can be better. so how do we use the data to make us better? alright, chances are someone here, someone watching this has seen a therapist or a shrink at some point in time in your life — you do not have to raise your hand. how do you know that person's any good? oh, they have a degree from harvard on the wall? are you sure he didn't graduate in the bottom 10 percent? when my husband and i saw a marriage counselor, i thought she was a genius when she said, "i'll see you guys in two weeks — but i need to see you next week, sir." we have the data to know what makes a great counselor. we know that if you text the words "numbs" and "sleeve," there's a 99 percent match for cutting. we know that if you text in the words "mg" and "rubber band," there's a 99 percent match for substance abuse. and we know that if you text in "sex," "oral" and "mormon," you're questioning if you're gay. now that's interesting information that a counselor could figure out but that algorithm in our hands means that an automatic pop-up says, "99 percent match for cutting — try asking one of these questions" to prompt the counselor. or "99 percent match for substance abuse, here are three drug clinics near the texter." it makes us more accurate.on the day that robin williams committed suicide, people flooded hotlines all over this country. it was sad to see an icon, a funnyman, commit suicide, and there were three hour wait times on every phone hotline in the country. we had a spike in volume also. the difference was if you text us, "i want to die," or "i want to kill myself," the algorithm reads that, you're code orange, and you become number one in the queue. so we can handle severity, not chronological. this data is also making the world better because i'm sitting on the world's first map of real-time crises. think about it: those 6.5 million messages, auto-tagging through natural language processes, all of these data points — i can tell you that the worst day of the week for eating disorders: monday. the worst time of day for substance abuse: 5am. and that montana is a beautiful place to visit but you do not want to live there, because it is the number one state for suicidal ideation.and we've made this data public and free and open. we've pulled all the personally identifiable information. and it's in a place called crisistrends.org. because i want schools to be able to see that monday is the worst day for eating disorders, so that they can plan meals and guidance counselors to be there on mondays. and i want families to see that substance abuse questions spike at 5am. i want somebody to take care of those native american reservations in montana. data, evidence makes policy, research, journalism, policing, school boards — everything better. i don't think of myself as a mental health activist. i think of myself as a national health activist. i get really excited about this data, i'm a little nerdy. yeah, that sounded too girly. i'm nerdy. i love data. and the only difference really between me and those people in hoodies down the road with their fat-funded companies, is that i'm not inspired by helping you find chinese food at 2am in dallas, or helping you touch your wrist and get a car immediately, or swipe right and get laid. i'm inspired —(laughter, applause)i want to use tech and data to make the world a better place. i want to use it to help that girl, who texted in about being raped by her father. because the truth is we never heard from her again. and i hope that she is somewhere safe and healthy, and i hope that she sees this talk and she knows that her desperation and her courage inspired the creation of crisis text line and inspires me every freaking day. <title = "A boat carrying 500 refugees sunk at sea. The story of two survivors">
<tags = "['Middle East', 'Syria', 'TEDx', 'global issues', 'government', 'humanity', 'immigration', 'policy', 'poverty', 'social change', 'society', 'trafficking', 'war']">
<occupation = "Voice for refugees">
every day, i listen to harrowing stories of people fleeing for their lives, across dangerous borders and unfriendly seas. but there's one story that keeps me awake at night, and it's about doaa.a syrian refugee, 19 years old, she was living a grinding existence in egypt working day wages. her dad was constantly thinking of his thriving business back in syria that had been blown to pieces by a bomb. and the war that drove them there was still raging in its fourth year. and the community that once welcomed them there had become weary of them. and one day, men on motorcycles tried to kidnap her. once an aspiring student thinking only of her future, now she was scared all the time.but she was also full of hope, because she was in love with a fellow syrian refugee named bassem. bassem was also struggling in egypt, and he said to doaa, "let's go to europe; seek asylum, safety. i will work, you can study — the promise of a new life." and he asked her father for her hand in marriage.but they knew to get to europe they had to risk their lives, traveling across the mediterranean sea, putting their hands in smugglers', notorious for their cruelty. and doaa was terrified of the water. she always had been. she never learned to swim.it was august that year, and already 2,000 people had died trying to cross the mediterranean, but doaa knew of a friend who had made it all the way to northern europe, and she thought, "maybe we can, too." so she asked her parents if they could go, and after a painful discussion, they consented, and bassem paid his entire life savings — 2,500 dollars each — to the smugglers.it was a saturday morning when the call came, and they were taken by bus to a beach, hundreds of people on the beach. they were taken then by small boats onto an old fishing boat, 500 of them crammed onto that boat, 300 below, [200] above. there were syrians, palestinians, africans, muslims and christians, 100 children, including sandra — little sandra, six years old — and masa, 18 months. there were families on that boat, crammed together shoulder to shoulder, feet to feet. doaa was sitting with her legs crammed up to her chest, bassem holding her hand.day two on the water, they were sick with worry and sick to their stomachs from the rough sea.day three, doaa had a premonition. and she said to bassem, "i fear we're not going to make it. i fear the boat is going to sink." and bassem said to her, "please be patient. we will make it to sweden, we will get married and we will have a future."day four, the passengers were getting agitated. they asked the captain, "when will we get there?" he told them to shut up, and he insulted them. he said, "in 16 hours we will reach the shores of italy." they were weak and weary. soon they saw a boat approach — a smaller boat, 10 men on board, who started shouting at them, hurling insults, throwing sticks, asking them to all disembark and get on this smaller, more unseaworthy boat. the parents were terrified for their children, and they collectively refused to disembark. so the boat sped away in anger, and a half an hour later, came back and started deliberately ramming a hole in the side of doaa's boat, just below where she and bassem were sitting. and she heard how they yelled, "let the fish eat your flesh!" and they started laughing as the boat capsized and sank.the 300 people below deck were doomed. doaa was holding on to the side of the boat as it sank, and watched in horror as a small child was cut to pieces by the propeller. bassem said to her, "please let go, or you'll be swept in and the propeller will kill you, too." and remember — she can't swim. but she let go and she started moving her arms and her legs, thinking, "this is swimming." and miraculously, bassem found a life ring. it was one of those child's rings that they use to play in swimming pools and on calm seas. and doaa climbed onto the ring, her arms and her legs dangling by the side. bassem was a good swimmer, so he held her hand and tread water. around them there were corpses. around 100 people survived initially, and they started coming together in groups, praying for rescue. but when a day went by and no one came, some people gave up hope, and doaa and bassem watched as men in the distance took their life vests off and sank into the water.one man approached them with a small baby perched on his shoulder, nine months old — malek. he was holding onto a gas canister to stay afloat, and he said to them, "i fear i am not going to survive. i'm too weak. i don't have the courage anymore." and he handed little malek over to bassem and to doaa, and they perched her onto the life ring. so now they were three, doaa, bassem and little malek.and let me take a pause in this story right here and ask the question: why do refugees like doaa take these kinds of risks? millions of refugees are living in exile, in limbo. they're living in countries [fleeing] from a war that has been raging for four years. even if they wanted to return, they can't. their homes, their businesses, their towns and their cities have been completely destroyed. this is a unesco world heritage city, homs, in syria. so people continue to flee into neighboring countries, and we build refugee camps for them in the desert. hundreds of thousands of people live in camps like these, and thousands and thousands more, millions, live in towns and cities. and the communities, the neighboring countries that once welcomed them with open arms and hearts are overwhelmed. there are simply not enough schools, water systems, sanitation. even rich european countries could never handle such an influx without massive investment. the syria war has driven almost four million people over the borders, but over seven million people are on the run inside the country. that means that over half the syrian population has been forced to flee. back to those neighboring countries hosting so many. they feel that the richer world has done too little to support them. and days have turned into months, months into years. a refugee's stay is supposed to be temporary.back to doaa and bassem in the water. it was their second day, and bassem was getting very weak. and now it was doaa's turn to say to bassem, "my love, please hold on to hope, to our future. we will make it." and he said to her, "i'm sorry, my love, that i put you in this situation. i have never loved anyone as much as i love you." and he released himself into the water, and doaa watched as the love of her life drowned before her eyes.later that day, a mother came up to doaa with her small 18-month-old daughter, masa. this was the little girl i showed you in the picture earlier, with the life vests. her older sister sandra had just drowned, and her mother knew she had to do everything in her power to save her daughter. and she said to doaa, "please take this child. let her be part of you. i will not survive." and then she went away and drowned.so doaa, the 19-year-old refugee who was terrified of the water, who couldn't swim, found herself in charge of two little baby kids. and they were thirsty and they were hungry and they were agitated, and she tried her best to amuse them, to sing to them, to say words to them from the quran. around them, the bodies were bloating and turning black. the sun was blazing during the day. at night, there was a cold moon and fog. it was very frightening. on the fourth day in the water, this is how doaa probably looked on the ring with her two children.a woman came on the fourth day and approached her and asked her to take another child — a little boy, just four years old. when doaa took the little boy and the mother drowned, she said to the sobbing child, "she just went away to find you water and food." but his heart soon stopped, and doaa had to release the little boy into the water.later that day, she looked up into the sky with hope, because she saw two planes crossing in the sky. and she waved her arms, hoping they would see her, but the planes were soon gone.but that afternoon, as the sun was going down, she saw a boat, a merchant vessel. and she said, "please, god, let them rescue me." she waved her arms and she felt like she shouted for about two hours. and it had become dark, but finally the searchlights found her and they extended a rope, astonished to see a woman clutching onto two babies.they pulled them onto the boat, they got oxygen and blankets, and a greek helicopter came to pick them up and take them to the island of crete.but doaa looked down and asked, "what of malek?" and they told her the little baby did not survive — she drew her last breath in the boat's clinic. but doaa was sure that as they had been pulled up onto the rescue boat, that little baby girl had been smiling.only 11 people survived that wreck, of the 500. there was never an international investigation into what happened. there were some media reports about mass murder at sea, a terrible tragedy, but that was only for one day. and then the news cycle moved on.meanwhile, in a pediatric hospital on crete, little masa was on the edge of death. she was really dehydrated. her kidneys were failing. her glucose levels were dangerously low. the doctors did everything in their medical power to save them, and the greek nurses never left her side, holding her, hugging her, singing her words. my colleagues also visited and said pretty words to her in arabic. amazingly, little masa survived.and soon the greek press started reporting about the miracle baby, who had survived four days in the water without food or anything to drink, and offers to adopt her came from all over the country.and meanwhile, doaa was in another hospital on crete, thin, dehydrated. an egyptian family took her into their home as soon as she was released. and soon word went around about doaa's survival, and a phone number was published on facebook. messages started coming in."doaa, do you know what happened to my brother? my sister? my parents? my friends? do you know if they survived?"one of those messages said, "i believe you saved my little niece, masa." and it had this photo. this was from masa's uncle, a syrian refugee who had made it to sweden with his family and also masa's older sister. soon, we hope, masa will be reunited with him in sweden, and until then, she's being cared for in a beautiful orphanage in athens.and doaa? well, word went around about her survival, too. and the media wrote about this slight woman, and couldn't imagine how she could survive all this time under such conditions in that sea, and still save another life. the academy of athens, one of greece's most prestigious institutions, gave her an award of bravery, and she deserves all that praise, and she deserves a second chance. but she wants to still go to sweden. she wants to reunite with her family there. she wants to bring her mother and her father and her younger siblings away from egypt there as well, and i believe she will succeed. she wants to become a lawyer or a politician or something that can help fight injustice. she is an extraordinary survivor.but i have to ask: what if she didn't have to take that risk? why did she have to go through all that? why wasn't there a legal way for her to study in europe? why couldn't masa have taken an airplane to sweden? why couldn't bassem have found work? why is there no massive resettlement program for syrian refugees, the victims of the worst war of our times? the world did this for the vietnamese in the 1970s. why not now? why is there so little investment in the neighboring countries hosting so many refugees? and why, the root question, is so little being done to stop the wars, the persecution and the poverty that is driving so many people to the shores of europe? until these issues are resolved, people will continue to take to the seas and to seek safety and asylum.and what happens next? well, that is largely europe's choice. and i understand the public fears. people are worried about their security, their economies, the changes of culture. but is that more important than saving human lives? because there is something fundamental here that i think overrides the rest, and it is about our common humanity. no person fleeing war or persecution should have to die crossing a sea to reach safety. one thing is for sure, that no refugee would be on those dangerous boats if they could thrive where they are. and no migrant would take that dangerous journey if they had enough food for themselves and their children. and no one would put their life savings in the hands of those notorious smugglers if there was a legal way to migrate.so on behalf of little masa and on behalf of doaa and of bassem and of those 500 people who drowned with them, can we make sure that they did not die in vain? could we be inspired by what happened, and take a stand for a world in which every life matters?thank you. <title = "The coolest animal you know nothing about ... and how we can save it">
<tags = "['Brazil', 'TED Fellows', 'animals', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'environment']">
<occupation = "Wildlife conservationist">
this is one of the most amazing animals on the face of the earth. this is a tapir. now this, this is a baby tapir, the cutest animal offspring in the animal kingdom. by far. there is no competition here.i have dedicated the past 20 years of my life to the research and conservation of tapirs in brazil, and it has been absolutely amazing. but at the moment, i've been thinking really, really hard about the impact of my work. i've been questioning myself about the real contributions i have made for the conservation of these animals i love so much. am i being effective in safeguarding their survival? am i doing enough? i guess the big question here is, am i studying tapirs and contributing to their conservation, or am i just documenting their extinction?the world is facing so many different conservation crises. we all know that. it's all over the news every day. tropical forests and other ecosystems are being destroyed, climate change, so many species on the brink of extinction: tigers, lions, elephants, rhinos, tapirs.this is the lowland tapir, the tapir species i work with, the largest terrestrial mammal of south america. they're massive. they're powerful. adults can weigh up to 300 kilos. that's half the size of a horse. they're gorgeous.tapirs are mostly found in tropical forests such as the amazon, and they absolutely need large patches of habitat in order to find all the resources they need to reproduce and survive. but their habitat is being destroyed, and they have been hunted out of several parts of their geographic distribution.and you see, this is very, very unfortunate because tapirs are extremely important for the habitats where they are found. they're herbivores. fifty percent of their diet consists of fruit, and when they eat the fruit, they swallow the seeds, which they disperse throughout the habitat through their feces. they play this major role in shaping and maintaining the structure and diversity of the forest, and for that reason, tapirs are known as gardeners of the forest. isn't that amazing? if you think about it, the extinction of tapirs would seriously affect biodiversity as a whole.i started my tapir work in 1996, still very young, fresh out of college, and it was a pioneer research and conservation program. at that point, we had nearly zero information about tapirs, mostly because they're so difficult to study. they're nocturnal, solitary, very elusive animals, and we got started getting very basic data about these animals.but what is it that a conservationist does? well, first, we need data. we need field research. we need those long-term datasets to support conservation action, and i told you tapirs are very hard to study, so we have to rely on indirect methods to study them. we have to capture and anesthetize them so that we can install gps collars around their necks and follow their movements, which is a technique used by many other conservationists around the world. and then we can gather information about how they use space, how they move through the landscape, what are their priority habitats, and so much more.next, we must disseminate what we learn. we have to educate people about tapirs and how important these animals are. and it's amazing how many people around the world do not know what a tapir is. in fact, many people think this is a tapir. let me tell you, this is not a tapir. this is a giant anteater. tapirs do not eat ants. never. ever.and then next we have to provide training, capacity building. it is our responsibility to prepare the conservationists of the future. we are losing several conservation battles, and we need more people doing what we do, and they need the skills, and they need the passion to do that. ultimately, we conservationists, we must be able to apply our data, to apply our accumulated knowledge to support actual conservation action. our first tapir program took place in the atlantic forest in the eastern part of brazil, one of the most threatened biomes in the world. the destruction of the atlantic forest began in the early 1500s, when the portuguese first arrived in brazil, beginning european colonization in the eastern part of south america. this forest was almost completely cleared for timber, agriculture, cattle ranching and the construction of cities, and today only seven percent of the atlantic forest is still left standing. and tapirs are found in very, very small, isolated, disconnected populations. in the atlantic forest, we found out that tapirs move through open areas of pastureland and agriculture going from one patch of forest to patch of forest. so our main approach in this region was to use our tapir data to identify the potential places for the establishment of wildlife corridors in between those patches of forest, reconnecting the habitat so that tapirs and many other animals could cross the landscape safely.after 12 years in the atlantic forest, in 2008, we expanded our tapir conservation efforts to the pantanal in the western part of brazil near the border with bolivia and paraguay. this is the largest continuous freshwater floodplain in the world, an incredible place and one of the most important strongholds for lowland tapirs in south america. and working in the pantanal has been extremely refreshing because we found large, healthy tapir populations in the area, and we have been able to study tapirs in the most natural conditions we'll ever find, very much free of threats.in the pantanal, besides the gps collars, we are using another technique: camera traps. this camera is equipped with a movement sensor and it photographs animals when they walk in front of it. so thanks to these amazing devices, we have been able to gather precious information about tapir reproduction and social organization which are very important pieces of the puzzle when you're trying to develop those conservation strategies.and right now, 2015, we are expanding our work once again to the brazilian cerrado, the open grasslands and shrub forests in the central part of brazil. today this region is the very epicenter of economic development in my country, where natural habitat and wildlife populations are rapidly being eradicated by several different threats, including once again cattle ranching, large sugarcane and soybean plantations, poaching, roadkill, just to name a few. and somehow, tapirs are still there, which gives me a lot of hope. but i have to say that starting this new program in the cerrado was a bit of a slap in the face. when you drive around and you find dead tapirs along the highways and signs of tapirs wandering around in the middle of sugarcane plantations where they shouldn't be, and you talk to kids and they tell you that they know how tapir meat tastes because their families poach and eat them, it really breaks your heart.the situation in the cerrado made me realize — it gave me the sense of urgency. i am swimming against the tide. it made me realize that despite two decades of hard work trying to save these animals, we still have so much work to do if we are to prevent them from disappearing. we have to find ways to solve all these problems. we really do, and you know what? we really came to a point in the conservation world where we have to think out of the box. we'll have to be a lot more creative than we are right now. and i told you, roadkill is a big problem for tapirs in the cerrado, so we just came up with the idea of putting reflective stickers on the gps collars we put on the tapirs. these are the same stickers used on big trucks to avoid collision. tapirs cross the highways after dark, so the stickers will hopefully help drivers see this shining thing crossing the highway, and maybe they will slow down a little bit. for now, this is just a crazy idea. we don't know. we'll see if it will reduce the amount of tapir roadkill. but the point is, maybe this is the kind of stuff that needs to be done.and although i'm struggling with all these questions in my mind right now, i have a pact with tapirs. i know in my heart that tapir conservation is my cause. this is my passion. i am not alone. i have this huge network of supporters behind me, and there is no way i'm ever going to stop. i will continue doing this, most probably for the rest of my life. and i'll keep doing this for patrícia, my namesake, one of the first tapirs we captured and monitored in the atlantic forest many, many years ago; for rita and her baby vincent in the pantanal. and i'll keep doing this for ted, a baby tapir we captured in december last year also in the pantanal.and i will keep doing this for the hundreds of tapirs that i've had the pleasure to meet over the years and the many others i know i will encounter in the future. these animals deserve to be cared for. they need me. they need us. and you know? we human beings deserve to live in a world where we can get out there and see and benefit from not only tapirs but all the other beautiful species, now and in the future.thank you so much. <title = "Forget Wi-Fi. Meet the new Li-Fi Internet">
<tags = "['Internet', 'communication', 'demo', 'design', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'invention', 'solar energy', 'web']">
<occupation = "Communications technology innovator">
i would like to demonstrate for the first time in public that it is possible to transmit a video from a standard off-the-shelf led lamp to a solar cell with a laptop acting as a receiver. there is no wi-fi involved, it's just light.and you may wonder, what's the point? and the point is this: there will be a massive extension of the internet to close the digital divide, and also to allow for what we call "the internet of things" — tens of billions of devices connected to the internet.in my view, such an extension of the internet can only work if it's almost energy-neutral. this means we need to use existing infrastructure as much as possible. and this is where the solar cell and the led come in.i demonstrated for the first time, at ted in 2011, li-fi, or light fidelity. li-fi uses off-the-shelf leds to transmit data incredibly fast, and also in a safe and secure manner. data is transported by the light, encoded in subtle changes of the brightness. if we look around, we have many leds around us, so there's a rich infrastructure of li-fi transmitters around us. but so far, we have been using special devices — small photo detectors, to receive the information encoded in the data. i wanted to find a way to also use existing infrastructure to receive data from our li-fi lights. and this is why i have been looking into solar cells and solar panels.a solar cell absorbs light and converts it into electrical energy. this is why we can use a solar cell to charge our mobile phone. but now we need to remember that the data is encoded in subtle changes of the brightness of the led, so if the incoming light fluctuates, so does the energy harvested from the solar cell. this means we have a principal mechanism in place to receive information from the light and by the solar cell, because the fluctuations of the energy harvested correspond to the data transmitted.of course the question is: can we receive very fast and subtle changes of the brightness, such as the ones transmitted by our led lights? and the answer to that is yes, we can. we have shown in the lab that we can receive up to 50 megabytes per second from a standard, off-the-shelf solar cell. and this is faster than most broadband connections these days.now let me show you in practice. in this box is a standard, off-the-shelf led lamp. this is a standard, off-the-shelf solar cell; it is connected to the laptop. and also we have an instrument here to visualize the energy we harvest from the solar cell. and this instrument shows something at the moment. this is because the solar cell already harvests light from the ambient light.now what i would like to do first is switch on the light, and i'll simply, only switch on the light, for a moment, and what you'll notice is that the instrument jumps to the right. so the solar cell, for a moment, is harvesting energy from this artificial light source. if i turn it off, we see it drops. i turn it on ... so we harvest energy with the solar cell.but next i would like to activate the streaming of the video. and i've done this by pressing this button. so now this led lamp here is streaming a video by changing the brightness of the led in a very subtle way, and in a way that you can't recognize with your eye, because the changes are too fast to recognize. but in order to prove the point, i can block the light of the solar cell. so first you notice the energy harvesting drops and the video stops as well. if i remove the blockage, the video will restart. and i can repeat that. so we stop the transmission of the video and energy harvesting stops as well. so that is to show that the solar cell acts as a receiver.but now imagine that this led lamp is a street light, and there's fog. and so i want to simulate fog, and that's why i brought a handkerchief with me. and let me put the handkerchief over the solar cell. first you notice the energy harvested drops, as expected, but now the video still continues. this means, despite the blockage, there's sufficient light coming through the handkerchief to the solar cell, so that the solar cell is able to decode and stream that information, in this case, a high-definition video.what's really important here is that a solar cell has become a receiver for high-speed wireless signals encoded in light, while it maintains its primary function as an energy-harvesting device. that's why it is possible to use existing solar cells on the roof of a hut to act as a broadband receiver from a laser station on a close by hill, or indeed, lamp post.and it really doesn't matter where the beam hits the solar cell. and the same is true for translucent solar cells integrated into windows, solar cells integrated into street furniture, or indeed, solar cells integrated into these billions of devices that will form the internet of things. because simply, we don't want to charge these devices regularly, or worse, replace the batteries every few months.as i said to you, this is the first time i've shown this in public. it's very much a lab demonstration, a prototype. but my team and i are confident that we can take this to market within the next two to three years. and we hope we will be able to contribute to closing the digital divide, and also contribute to connecting all these billions of devices to the internet. and all of this without causing a massive explosion of energy consumption — because of the solar cells, quite the opposite.thank you. <title = "A musical escape into a world of light and color">
<tags = "['art', 'creativity', 'guitar', 'innovation', 'live music', 'music', 'performance']">
<occupation = "Guitarist">
(guitar music starts)(music ends) (distorted guitar music starts)(music ends) (ambient/guitar music starts)(music ends) <title = "This is what LGBT life is like around the world">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'LGBT', 'film', 'global issues', 'love', 'relationships', 'social change', 'society', 'travel']">
<occupation = "Documentary filmmakers">
jenni chang: when i told my parents i was gay, the first thing they said to me was, "we're bringing you back to taiwan." in their minds, my sexual orientation was america's fault. the west had corrupted me with divergent ideas, and if only my parents had never left taiwan, this would not have happened to their only daughter. in truth, i wondered if they were right.of course, there are gay people in asia, just as there are gay people in every part of the world. but is the idea of living an "out" life, in the "i'm gay, this is my spouse, and we're proud of our lives together" kind of way just a western idea?if i had grown up in taiwan, or any place outside of the west, would i have found models of happy, thriving lgbt people?lisa dazols: i had similar notions. as an hiv social worker in san francisco, i had met many gay immigrants. they told me their stories of persecution in their home countries, just for being gay, and the reasons why they escaped to the us. i saw how this had beaten them down. after 10 years of doing this kind of work, i needed better stories for myself. i knew the world was far from perfect, but surely not every gay story was tragic.jc: so as a couple, we both had a need to find stories of hope. so we set off on a mission to travel the world and look for the people we finally termed as the "supergays." these would be the lgbt individuals who were doing something extraordinary in the world. they would be courageous, resilient, and most of all, proud of who they were. they would be the kind of person that i aspire to be. our plan was to share their stories to the world through film.ld: there was just one problem. we had zero reporting and zero filmmaking experience. we didn't even know where to find the supergays, so we just had to trust that we'd figure it all out along the way. so we picked 15 countries in asia, africa and south america, countries outside the west that varied in terms of lgbt rights. we bought a camcorder, ordered a book on how to make a documentary — you can learn a lot these days — and set off on an around-the-world trip.jc: one of the first countries that we traveled to was nepal. despite widespread poverty, a decade-long civil war, and now recently, a devastating earthquake, nepal has made significant strides in the fight for equality. one of the key figures in the movement is bhumika shrestha. a beautiful, vibrant transgendered woman, bhumika has had to overcome being expelled from school and getting incarcerated because of her gender presentation. but, in 2007, bhumika and nepal's lgbt rights organization successfully petitioned the nepali supreme court to protect against lgbt discrimination.here's bhumika:(video) bs: what i'm most proud of? i'm a transgendered person. i'm so proud of my life. on december 21, 2007, the supreme court gave the decision for the nepal government to give transgender identity cards and same-sex marriage.ld: i can appreciate bhumika's confidence on a daily basis. something as simple as using a public restroom can be a huge challenge when you don't fit in to people's strict gender expectations. traveling throughout asia, i tended to freak out women in public restrooms. they weren't used to seeing someone like me. i had to come up with a strategy, so that i could just pee in peace. so anytime i would enter a restroom, i would thrust out my chest to show my womanly parts, and try to be as non-threatening as possible. putting out my hands and saying, "hello", just so that people could hear my feminine voice. this all gets pretty exhausting, but it's just who i am. i can't be anything else.jc: after nepal, we traveled to india. on one hand, india is a hindu society, without a tradition of homophobia. on the other hand, it is also a society with a deeply patriarchal system, which rejects anything that threatens the male-female order. when we spoke to activists, they told us that empowerment begins with ensuring proper gender equality, where the women's status is established in society. and in that way, the status of lgbt people can be affirmed as well.ld: there we met prince manvendra. he's the world's first openly gay prince. prince manvendra came out on the "oprah winfrey show," very internationally. his parents disowned him and accused him of bringing great shame to the royal family. we sat down with prince manvendra and talked to him about why he decided to come out so very publicly.here he is:(video) prince manvendra: i felt there was a lot of need to break this stigma and discrimination which is existing in our society. and that instigated me to come out openly and talk about myself. whether we are gay, we are lesbian, we are transgender, bisexual or whatever sexual minority we come from, we have to all unite and fight for our rights. gay rights cannot be won in the court rooms, but in the hearts and the minds of the people.jc: while getting my hair cut, the woman cutting my hair asked me, "do you have a husband?" now, this was a dreaded question that i got asked a lot by locals while traveling. when i explained to her that i was with a woman instead of a man, she was incredulous, and she asked me a lot of questions about my parents' reactions and whether i was sad that i'd never be able to have children. i told her that there are no limitations to my life and that lisa and i do plan to have a family some day. now, this woman was ready to write me off as yet another crazy westerner. she couldn't imagine that such a phenomenon could happen in her own country. that is, until i showed her the photos of the supergays that we interviewed in india. she recognized prince manvendra from television and soon i had an audience of other hairdressers interested in meeting me. and in that ordinary afternoon, i had the chance to introduce an entire beauty salon to the social changes that were happening in their own country.ld: from india, we traveled to east africa, a region known for intolerance towards lgbt people. in kenya, 89 percent of people who come out to their families are disowned. homosexual acts are a crime and can lead to incarceration. in kenya, we met the soft-spoken david kuria. david had a huge mission of wanting to work for the poor and improve his own government. so he decided to run for senate. he became kenya's first openly gay political candidate. david wanted to run his campaign without denying the reality of who he was. but we were worried for his safety because he started to receive death threats.(video) david kuria: at that point, i was really scared because they were actually asking for me to be killed. and, yeah, there are some people out there who do it and they feel that they are doing a religious obligation.jc: david wasn't ashamed of who he was. even in the face of threats, he stayed authentic.ld: at the opposite end of the spectrum is argentina. argentina's a country where 92 percent of the population identifies as catholic. yet, argentina has lgbt laws that are even more progressive than here in the us. in 2010, argentina became the first country in latin america and the 10th in the world to adopt marriage equality.there, we met maría rachid. maría was a driving force behind that movement.maría rachid (spanish): i always say that, in reality, the effects of marriage equality are not only for those couples that get married. they are for a lot of people that, even though they may never get married, will be perceived differently by their coworkers, their families and neighbors, from the national state's message of equality. i feel very proud of argentina because argentina today is a model of equality. and hopefully soon, the whole world will have the same rights.jc: when we made the visit to my ancestral lands, i wish i could have shown my parents what we found there. because here is who we met:(video) one, two, three. welcome gays to shanghai! a whole community of young, beautiful chinese lgbt people. sure, they had their struggles. but they were fighting it out. in shanghai, i had the chance to speak to a local lesbian group and tell them our story in my broken mandarin chinese. in taipei, each time we got onto the metro, we saw yet another lesbian couple holding hands. and we learned that asia's largest lgbt pride event happens just blocks away from where my grandparents live. if only my parents knew.ld: by the time we finished our not-so-straight journey around the world, we had traveled 50,000 miles and logged 120 hours of video footage. we traveled to 15 countries and interviewed 50 supergays. turns out, it wasn't hard to find them at all.jc: yes, there are still tragedies that happen on the bumpy road to equality. and let's not forget that 75 countries still criminalize homosexuality today. but there are also stories of hope and courage in every corner of the world. what we ultimately took away from our journey is, equality is not a western invention.ld: one of the key factors in this equality movement is momentum, momentum as more and more people embrace their full selves and use whatever opportunities they have to change their part of the world, and momentum as more and more countries find models of equality in one another. when nepal protected against lgbt discrimination, india pushed harder. when argentina embraced marriage equality, uruguay and brazil followed. when ireland said yes to equality, the world stopped to notice. when the us supreme court makes a statement to the world that we can all be proud of. jc: as we reviewed our footage, what we realized is that we were watching a love story. it wasn't a love story that was expected of me, but it is one filled with more freedom, adventure and love than i could have ever possibly imagined. one year after returning home from our trip, marriage equality came to california. and in the end, we believe, love will win out.(video) by the power vested in me, by the state of california and by god almighty, i now pronounce you spouses for life. you may kiss. <title = "The moral bias behind your search results">
<tags = "['Google', 'Internet', 'TEDx', 'algorithm', 'communication', 'computers', 'decision-making', 'society', 'software', 'technology', 'web']">
<occupation = "Author and journalist">
so whenever i visit a school and talk to students, i always ask them the same thing: why do you google? why is google the search engine of choice for you? strangely enough, i always get the same three answers. one, "because it works," which is a great answer; that's why i google, too. two, somebody will say, "i really don't know of any alternatives." it's not an equally great answer and my reply to that is usually, "try to google the word 'search engine,' you may find a couple of interesting alternatives." and last but not least, thirdly, inevitably, one student will raise her or his hand and say, "with google, i'm certain to always get the best, unbiased search result." certain to always get the best, unbiased search result.now, as a man of the humanities, albeit a digital humanities man, that just makes my skin curl, even if i, too, realize that that trust, that idea of the unbiased search result is a cornerstone in our collective love for and appreciation of google. i will show you why that, philosophically, is almost an impossibility.but let me first elaborate, just a little bit, on a basic principle behind each search query that we sometimes seem to forget. so whenever you set out to google something, start by asking yourself this: "am i looking for an isolated fact?" what is the capital of france? what are the building blocks of a water molecule? great — google away. there's not a group of scientists who are this close to proving that it's actually london and h30. you don't see a big conspiracy among those things. we agree, on a global scale, what the answers are to these isolated facts.but if you complicate your question just a little bit and ask something like, "why is there an israeli-palestine conflict?" you're not exactly looking for a singular fact anymore, you're looking for knowledge, which is something way more complicated and delicate. and to get to knowledge, you have to bring 10 or 20 or 100 facts to the table and acknowledge them and say, "yes, these are all true." but because of who i am, young or old, black or white, gay or straight, i will value them differently. and i will say, "yes, this is true, but this is more important to me than that." and this is where it becomes interesting, because this is where we become human. this is when we start to argue, to form society. and to really get somewhere, we need to filter all our facts here, through friends and neighbors and parents and children and coworkers and newspapers and magazines, to finally be grounded in real knowledge, which is something that a search engine is a poor help to achieve.so, i promised you an example just to show you why it's so hard to get to the point of true, clean, objective knowledge — as food for thought. i will conduct a couple of simple queries, search queries. we'll start with "michelle obama," the first lady of the united states. and we'll click for pictures. it works really well, as you can see. it's a perfect search result, more or less. it's just her in the picture, not even the president.how does this work? quite simple. google uses a lot of smartness to achieve this, but quite simply, they look at two things more than anything. first, what does it say in the caption under the picture on each website? does it say "michelle obama" under the picture? pretty good indication it's actually her on there. second, google looks at the picture file, the name of the file as such uploaded to the website. again, is it called "michelleobama.jpeg"? pretty good indication it's not clint eastwood in the picture. so, you've got those two and you get a search result like this — almost.now, in 2009, michelle obama was the victim of a racist campaign, where people set out to insult her through her search results. there was a picture distributed widely over the internet where her face was distorted to look like a monkey. and that picture was published all over. and people published it very, very purposefully, to get it up there in the search results. they made sure to write "michelle obama" in the caption and they made sure to upload the picture as "michelleobama.jpeg," or the like. you get why — to manipulate the search result. and it worked, too. so when you picture-googled for "michelle obama" in 2009, that distorted monkey picture showed up among the first results.now, the results are self-cleansing, and that's sort of the beauty of it, because google measures relevance every hour, every day. however, google didn't settle for that this time, they just thought, "that's racist and it's a bad search result and we're going to go back and clean that up manually. we are going to write some code and fix it," which they did. and i don't think anyone in this room thinks that was a bad idea. me neither.but then, a couple of years go by, and the world's most-googled anders, anders behring breivik, did what he did. this is july 22 in 2011, and a terrible day in norwegian history. this man, a terrorist, blew up a couple of government buildings walking distance from where we are right now in oslo, norway and then he traveled to the island of utøya and shot and killed a group of kids. almost 80 people died that day.and a lot of people would describe this act of terror as two steps, that he did two things: he blew up the buildings and he shot those kids. it's not true. it was three steps. he blew up those buildings, he shot those kids, and he sat down and waited for the world to google him. and he prepared all three steps equally well.and if there was somebody who immediately understood this, it was a swedish web developer, a search engine optimization expert in stockholm, named nikke lindqvist. he's also a very political guy and he was right out there in social media, on his blog and facebook. and he told everybody, "if there's something that this guy wants right now, it's to control the image of himself. let's see if we can distort that. let's see if we, in the civilized world, can protest against what he did through insulting him in his search results."and how? he told all of his readers the following, "go out there on the internet, find pictures of dog poop on sidewalks — find pictures of dog poop on sidewalks — publish them in your feeds, on your websites, on your blogs. make sure to write the terrorist's name in the caption, make sure to name the picture file "breivik.jpeg." let's teach google that that's the face of the terrorist." and it worked. two years after that campaign against michelle obama, this manipulation campaign against anders behring breivik worked. if you picture-googled for him weeks after the july 22 events from sweden, you'd see that picture of dog poop high up in the search results, as a little protest.strangely enough, google didn't intervene this time. they did not step in and manually clean those search results up. so the million-dollar question, is there anything different between these two happenings here? is there anything different between what happened to michelle obama and what happened to anders behring breivik? of course not. it's the exact same thing, yet google intervened in one case and not in the other.why? because michelle obama is an honorable person, that's why, and anders behring breivik is a despicable person. see what happens there? an evaluation of a person takes place and there's only one power-player in the world with the authority to say who's who. "we like you, we dislike you. we believe in you, we don't believe in you. you're right, you're wrong. you're true, you're false. you're obama, and you're breivik." that's power if i ever saw it.so i'm asking you to remember that behind every algorithm is always a person, a person with a set of personal beliefs that no code can ever completely eradicate. and my message goes out not only to google, but to all believers in the faith of code around the world. you need to identify your own personal bias. you need to understand that you are human and take responsibility accordingly.and i say this because i believe we've reached a point in time when it's absolutely imperative that we tie those bonds together again, tighter: the humanities and the technology. tighter than ever. and, if nothing else, to remind us that that wonderfully seductive idea of the unbiased, clean search result is, and is likely to remain, a myth.thank you for your time. <title = "How I'm working for change inside my church">
<tags = "['God', 'TED Fellows', 'activism', 'community', 'faith', 'feminism', 'identity', 'inequality', 'personal growth', 'religion', 'society', 'women']">
<occupation = "Activist, anthropologist, consultant">
religion is more than belief. it's power, and it's influence. and that influence affects all of us, every day, regardless of your own belief. despite the enormous influence of religion on the world today, we hold them to a different standard of scrutiny and accountability than any other sector of our society. for example, if there were a multinational organization, government or corporation today that said no female could be on a leadership board, not one woman could have a decision-making authority, not one woman could handle any financial matter, we would have outrage. there would be sanctions. and yet this is a common practice in almost every world religion today.we accept things in our religious lives that we do not accept in our secular lives, and i know this because i've been doing it for three decades. i was the type of girl that fought every form of gender discrimination growing up. i played pickup basketball games with the boys and inserted myself. i said i was going to be the first female president of the united states. i have been fighting for the equal rights amendment, which has been dead for 40 years. i'm the first woman in both sides of my family to ever work outside the home and ever receive a higher education.i never accepted being excluded because i was a woman, except in my religion. throughout all of that time, i was a part of a very patriarchal orthodox mormon religion. i grew up in an enormously traditional family. i have eight siblings, a stay-at-home mother. my father's actually a religious leader in the community. and i grew up in a world believing that my worth and my standing was in keeping these rules that i'd known my whole life. you get married a virgin, you never drink alcohol, you don't smoke, you always do service, you're a good kid. some of the rules we had were strict, but you followed the rules because you loved the people and you loved the religion and you believed.everything about mormonism determined what you wore, who you dated, who you married. it determined what underwear we wore. i was the kind of religious where everyone i know donated 10 percent of everything they earned to the church, including myself. from paper routes and babysitting, i donated 10 percent. i was the kind of religious where i heard parents tell children when they're leaving on a two-year proselytizing mission that they would rather have them die than return home without honor, having sinned. i was the type and the kind of religious where kids kill themselves every single year because they're terrified of coming out to our community as gay. but i was also the kind of religious where it didn't matter where in the world i lived, i had friendship, instantaneous mutual aid. this was where i felt safe. this is certainty and clarity about life. i had help raising my little daughter. so that's why i accepted without question that only men can lead, and i accepted without question that women can't have the spiritual authority of god on the earth, which we call the priesthood. and i allowed discrepancies between men and women in operating budgets, disciplinary councils, in decision-making capacities, and i gave my religion a free pass because i loved it.until i stopped, and i realized that i had been allowing myself to be treated as the support staff to the real work of men. and i faced this contradiction in myself, and i joined with other activists in my community. we've been working very, very, very hard for the last decade and more.the first thing we did was raise consciousness. you can't change what you can't see. we started podcasting, blogging, writing articles. i created lists of hundreds of ways that men and women are unequal in our community.the next thing we did was build advocacy organizations. we tried to do things that were unignorable, like wearing pants to church and trying to attend all-male meetings. these seem like simple things, but to us, the organizers, they were enormously costly. we lost relationships. we lost jobs. we got hate mail on a daily basis. we were attacked in social media and national press. we received death threats. we lost standing in our community. some of us got excommunicated. most of us got put in front of a disciplinary council, and were rejected from the communities that we loved because we wanted to make them better, because we believed that they could be.and i began to expect this reaction from my own people. i know what it feels like when you feel like someone's trying to change you or criticize you. but what utterly shocked me was throughout all of this work i received equal measures of vitriol from the secular left, the same vehemence as the religious right. and what my secular friends didn't realize was that this religious hostility, these phrases of, "oh, all religious people are crazy or stupid." "don't pay attention to religion." "they're going to be homophobic and sexist." what they didn't understand was that that type of hostility did not fight religious extremism, it bred religious extremism. those arguments don't work, and i know because i remember someone telling me that i was stupid for being mormon. and what it caused me to do was defend myself and my people and everything we believe in, because we're not stupid.so criticism and hostility doesn't work, and i didn't listen to these arguments. when i hear these arguments, i still continue to bristle, because i have family and friends. these are my people, and i'm the first to defend them, but the struggle is real. how do we respect someone's religious beliefs while still holding them accountable for the harm or damage that those beliefs may cause others? it's a tough question. i still don't have a perfect answer. my parents and i have been walking on this tightrope for the last decade. they're intelligent people. they're lovely people. and let me try to help you understand their perspective. in mormonism, we believe that after you die, if you keep all the rules and you follow all the rituals, you can be together as a family again. and to my parents, me doing something as simple as having a sleeveless top right now, showing my shoulders, that makes me unworthy. i won't be with my family in the eternities. but even more, i had a brother die in a tragic accident at 15, and something as simple as this means we won't be together as a family. and to my parents, they cannot understand why something as simple as fashion or women's rights would prevent me from seeing my brother again. and that's the mindset that we're dealing with, and criticism does not change that. and so my parents and i have been walking this tightrope, explaining our sides, respecting one another, but actually invalidating each other's very basic beliefs by the way we live our lives, and it's been difficult. the way that we've been able to do that is to get past those defensive shells and really see the soft inside of unbelief and belief and try to respect each other while still holding boundaries clear.the other thing that the secular left and the atheists and the orthodox and the religious right, what they all don't understand was why even care about religious activism? i cannot tell you the hundreds of people who have said, "if you don't like religion, just leave." why would you try to change it? because what is taught on the sabbath leaks into our politics, our health policy, violence around the world. it leaks into education, military, fiscal decision-making. these laws get legally and culturally codified. in fact, my own religion has had an enormous effect on this nation. for example, during prop 8, my church raised over 22 million dollars to fight same-sex marriage in california. forty years ago, political historians will say, that if it wasn't for the mormon opposition to the equal rights amendment, we'd have an equal rights amendment in our constitution today. how many lives did that affect? and we can spend time fighting every single one of these little tiny laws and rules, or we can ask ourselves, why is gender inequality the default around the world? why is that the assumption?because religion doesn't just create the roots of morality, it creates the seeds of normality. religions can liberate or subjugate, they can empower or exploit, they can comfort or destroy, and the people that tip the scales over to the ethical and the moral are often not those in charge. religions can't be dismissed or ignored. we need to take them seriously. but it's not easy to influence a religion, like we just talked about.but i'll tell you what my people have done. my groups are small, there's hundreds of us, but we've had huge impact. right now, women's pictures are hanging in the halls next to men for the first time. women are now allowed to pray in our church-wide meetings, and they never were before in the general conferences. as of last week, in a historic move, three women were invited down to three leadership boards that oversee the entire church. we've seen perceptual shifts in the mormon community that allow for talk of gender inequality. we've opened up space, regardless of being despised, for more conservative women to step in and make real changes, and the words "women" and "the priesthood" can now be uttered in the same sentence. i never had that. my daughter and my nieces are inheriting a religion that i never had, that's more equal — we've had an effect.it wasn't easy standing in those lines trying to get into those male meetings. there were hundreds of us, and one by one, when we got to the door, we were told, "i'm sorry, this meeting is just for men," and we had to step back and watch men get into the meeting as young as 12 years old, escorted and walked past us as we all stood in line. but not one woman in that line will forget that day, and not one little boy that walked past us will forget that day.if we were a multinational corporation or a government, and that had happened, there would be outrage, but we're just a religion. we're all just part of religions. we can't keep looking at religion that way, because it doesn't only affect me, it affects my daughter and all of your daughters and what opportunities they have, what they can wear, who they can love and marry, if they have access to reproductive healthcare. we need to reclaim morality in a secular context that creates ethical scrutiny and accountability for religions all around the world, but we need to do it in a respectful way that breeds cooperation and not extremism. and we can do it through unignorable acts of bravery, standing up for gender equality.it's time that half of the world's population had voice and equality within our world's religions, churches, synagogues, mosques and shrines around the world. i'm working on my people. what are you doing for yours? <title = "The chilling aftershock of a brush with death">
<tags = "['PTSD', 'TEDx', 'death', 'global issues', 'iraq', 'military', 'mind', 'pain', 'psychology', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Journalist and psychologist">
it was april 8, 2003. i was in baghdad, covering the war in iraq. that day, americans tanks started arriving in baghdad. we were just a few journalists in the palestine hotel, and, as happens in war, the fighting began to approach outside our windows. baghdad was covered in black smoke and oil. it smelled awful. we couldn't see a thing, but we knew what was happening.of course, i was supposed to be writing an article, but that's how it always goes — you're supposed to be writing and something big happens. so i was in my room on the 16th floor, writing and looking out the window every now and then to see what was happening. suddenly, there was a huge explosion. during the previous three weeks, there had been shelling with half-ton missiles, but this time, the shock — i felt it inside of me, and i thought, "it's very close. it's very, very close."so i went down to see what was happening. i went down to the 15th floor to take a look. and i saw people, journalists, screaming in the hallways. i walked into a room and realized that it had been hit by a missile. someone had been wounded. there was a man near the window, a cameraman named taras protsyuk, lying face-down. having worked in a hospital before, i wanted to help out. so i turned him over. and when i turned him over, i noticed that he was open from sternum to pubis, but i couldn't see anything, nothing at all. all i saw was a white, pearly, shiny spot that blinded me, and i didn't understand what was going on.once the spot disappeared and i could see his wound, which was very serious, my buddies and i put a sheet underneath him, and we carried him onto an elevator that stopped at each of the 15 floors. we put him in a car that took him to the hospital. he died on the way to the hospital. the spanish cameraman josé couso, who was on the 14th floor and also hit — because the shell had exploded between the two floors — died on the operating table. as soon as the car left, i went back. there was that article i was supposed to write — which i had to write.and so — i returned to the hotel lobby with my arms covered in blood, when one of the hotel gofers stopped me and asked me to pay the tax i hadn't paid for 10 days. i told him to get lost. and i said to myself: "clear your head, put it all aside. if you want to write, you need to put it all aside." and that's what i did. i went upstairs, wrote my article and sent it off.later, aside from the feeling of having lost my colleagues, something else was bothering me. i kept seeing that shiny, pearly spot, and i couldn't understand what it meant. and then, the war was over.later, i thought: "that's not possible. i can't just not know what happened." because it wasn't the first time, and it didn't only happen to me. i have seen things like that happen to others in my 20 to 35 years of reporting. i have seen things that had an effect on me too. for example, there was this man i knew in lebanon, a 25-year-old veteran who had been fighting for five years — a real veteran — who we would follow everywhere. he would crawl in the dark with confidence — he was a great soldier, a true soldier — so we would follow him, knowing that we would be safe with him. and one day, as i was told — and i've seen him again since — he was back in the camp, playing cards, when someone came in next door, and discharged their weapon. as the gun went off, that blast, that one shot, made him duck quickly under the table, like a child. he was shaking, panicking. and since then, he has never been able to get up and fight. he ended up working as a croupier in a beirut casino where i later found him, because he couldn't sleep, so it was quite a suitable job.so i thought to myself, "what is this thing that can kill you without leaving any visible scars? how does that happen? what is this unknown thing?" it was too common to be coincidental.so i started to investigate — that's all i know how to do. i started to investigate by looking through books, reaching out to psychiatrists, going to museums, libraries, etc. finally, i discovered that some people knew about this — often military psychiatrists — and that what we were dealing with was called trauma. americans call it ptsd or traumatic neurosis. it was something that existed, but that we never spoke about.so, this trauma — what is it? well, it's an encounter with death. i don't know if you've ever had an experience with death — i'm not talking about dead bodies, or someone's grandfather lying in a hospital bed, or someone who got hit by a car. i'm talking about facing the void of death. and that is something no one is supposed to see. people used to say, "neither the sun, nor death can be looked at with a steady eye." a human being should not have to face the void of death.but when that happens, it can remain invisible for a while — days, weeks, months, sometimes years. and then, at some point, it explodes, because it's something that has entered your brain — a sort of window between an image and your mind — that has penetrated your brain, staying there and taking up all the space inside. and there are people — men, women, who suddenly no longer sleep. and they experience horrible anxiety attacks — panic attacks, not just minor fears. they suddenly don't want to sleep, because when they do, they have the same nightmare every night. they see the same image every night. what type of image? for example, a soldier who enters a building and comes face to face with another soldier aiming at him. he looks at the gun, straight down the barrel. and this barrel suddenly becomes enormous, deformed. it becomes fluffy, swallowing everything. and he says — later he will say, "i saw death. i saw myself dead, therefore i'm dead." and from then on, he knows he is dead. it is not a perception — he is convinced that he is dead. in reality, someone came in, the guy left or didn't shoot, whatever, and he didn't actually get shot — but to him, he died in that moment. or it can be the smell of a mass grave — i saw a lot of that in rwanda. it can be the voice of a friend calling, and they're being slaughtered and there's nothing you can do. you hear that voice, and you wake up every night — for weeks, months — in a trance-like state, anxious and terrified, like a child. i have seen men cry — just like children — from seeing the same image.so having that image of horror in your brain, seeing the void of death — that analogue of horror which is hiding something — will completely take over. you cannot do anything, anything at all. you cannot work anymore, you cannot love anymore. you go home and don't recognize anyone. you don't even recognize yourself. you hide and don't leave the house, you lock yourself in, you become ill. i know people who placed small cans outside their house with coins inside, in case someone tried to get in. all of a sudden, you feel like you want to die or kill or hide or run away. you want to be loved, but you hate everyone. it's a feeling that seizes you entirely day in and day out, and you suffer tremendously. and no one understands. they say, "there's nothing wrong with you. you seem fine, you have no injuries. you went to war, came back; you're fine." these people suffer tremendously. some commit suicide. after all, suicide is like updating your daily planner — i'm already dead, i might as well commit suicide. plus, there is no more pain. some commit suicide, others end up under the bridge, drinking. everyone remembers that grandfather or uncle or neighbor who used to drink, never said a word, always in a bad mood, beat his wife and who would end up either sinking into alcoholism or dying.and why do we not talk about this? we don't talk about it because it's taboo. it's not like we don't have the words to express the void of death. but others don't want hear it. the first time i returned from an assignment, they said, "oh! he's back." there was a fancy dinner — white tablecloth, candles, guests. "tell us everything!" which i did. after 20 minutes, people were giving me dirty looks, the hostess had her nose in the ashtray. it was horrible and i realized i ruined the whole evening. so i don't talk about it anymore. we're just not ready to listen. people say outright: "please, stop."is that a rare occurrence? no, it's extremely common. one third of the soldiers who died in iraq — well, not "died," let me re-phrase that — one third of the us soldiers who went to iraq suffer from ptsd. in 1939, there were still 200,000 soldiers from the first world war that were being treated in british psychiatric hospitals. in vietnam, 54,000 people died — americans. in 1987, the us government identified 102,000 — twice as many — 102,000 veterans who died from committing suicide. twice as many deaths by suicide than by combat in vietnam. so you see, this relates to everything, not just modern warfare, but also ancient wars — you can read about it, the evidence is there. so why do we not talk about it? why have we not talked about it? the problem is that if you don't talk about it, you're heading for disaster.the only way to heal — and the good news here is that this is treatable — think munch's the scream, goya, etc. — it's indeed treatable. the only way to heal from this trauma, from this encounter with death that overwhelms, petrifies and kills you is to find a way to express it.people used to say, "language is the only thing that holds all of us together." without language, we're nothing. it's the thing that makes us human. in the face of such a horrible image — a wordless image of oblivion that obsesses us — the only way to cope with it is to put human words to it. because these people feel excluded from humanity. no one wants to see them anymore and they don't want to see anyone. they feel dirty, defiled, ashamed. someone said, "doctor, i don't use the subway anymore because i'm afraid people will see the horror in my eyes." another guy thought he had a terrible skin disease and spent six months with dermatologists, going from doctor to doctor. and then one day, they sent him to a psychiatrist. during his second session, he told the psychiatrist he had a terrible skin disease from head to toe. the psychiatrist asked, "why are you in this state?" and the man said, "well, because i'm dead, so i must be rotting away."so you see this is something that has a profound effect on people. in order to heal, we need to talk about it. the horror needs to be put into words — human words, so we can organize it and talk about it again. we have to look death in the face. and if we can do that, if we can talk about these things, then step by step, by working it out verbally, we can reclaim our place in humanity. and it is important. silence kills us.so what does this mean? it means that after a trauma, without question, we lose our "unbearable lightness of being," that sense of immortality that keeps us here — meaning, if we're here, we almost feel like we're immortal, which we're not, but if we didn't believe that, we'd say, "what's the point of it all?" but trauma survivors have lost that feeling of immortality. they've lost their lightness. but they have found something else. so this means that if we manage to look death in the face, and actually confront it, rather than keep quiet and hide, like some of the men or women i know did, such as michael from rwanda, carole from iraq, philippe from the congo and other people i know, like sorj chalandon, now a great writer, who gave up field assignments after a trauma. five friends of mine committed suicide, they're the ones who did not survive the trauma.so if we can look death in the face, if we, mortal humans, human mortals, understand that we are human and mortal, mortal and human, if we can confront death and identify it once again as the most mysterious place of all mysterious places, since no one has ever seen it — if we can give it back this meaning, yes, we may die, survive and come back to life, but we'll come back stronger than before. much stronger.thank you. <title = "Why sneakers are a great investment">
<tags = "['Brand', 'advertising', 'data', 'economics', 'fashion', 'investment', 'marketing', 'shopping']">
<occupation = "Sneaker data expert">
this is the air jordan 3 black cement. this might be the most important sneaker in history. first released in 1988, this is the shoe that started nike marketing as we know it. this is the shoe that propelled the entire air jordan lineage, and perhaps saved nike. the air jordan 3 black cement did for sneakers what the iphone did for phones. it's been re-released four times. every celebrity's been seen wearing it. there's a site about what to wear with the black cement. it's been right under your nose for decades and you never looked down. and right about now, most of you are probably thinking, "sneakers?" yes. yes, sneakers. some extraordinary things about sneakers and data and nike and how they're all related, possibly, to the future of all online commerce.in 2011, the last time the jordan 3 black cement was released, at a retail of 160 dollars, it sold out globally in minutes. and that's because people were camped outside of sneaker stores for days before it went on sale. and just minutes after that, thousands of those pairs were on ebay for two and three times retail. in fact, there's over 1,000 pairs on ebay right now, four years later. but here's the thing: this happens every single saturday. every week there's another release or two or three, and every shoe has a story as rich and compelling as the jordan 3 black cement.this is nike building the marketplace for sneakerheads — people who collect sneakers — and my daughter. that's an "i love dad" t-shirt.for the brands, sneakerheads are a very important demographic. these are the tastemakers; these are the apple fanboys. because who else is going to buy a pair of $8,000 back to the future sneakers? yeah, 8,000 dollars.and while that's obviously the anomaly, the resell sneaker market is definitely not. thirty years in the making, what started as an underground culture of a few people who like sneakers just a bit too much — now we have sneaker addictions. in a market where in the past 12 months, there have been over nine million pairs of shoes resold in the united states alone, at a value of 1.2 billion dollars. and that's a conservative estimate — i should know, i am a sneakerhead. this is my collection. in the pantheon of great collections, mine doesn't even register. i have about 250 pairs, but trust me, i am small-time. people have thousands.i'm a very typical 37-year-old sneakerhead. i grew up playing basketball when michael jordan played, i always wanted air jordans, my mother would never buy me air jordans, as soon as i got some money i bought air jordans — literally, we all have the exact same story. but here's where mine diverged. after starting three companies, i took a job as a strategy consultant, when i very quickly realized that i didn't know the first thing about data. but i learned, because i had to, and i liked it. so i thought, i wonder if i could get ahold of some sneaker data, just to play with for my own amusement. the goal was to develop a price guide, a real data-driven view of the market. and four years later, we're analyzing over 25 million transactions, providing real-time analytics on thousands of sneakers. now sneakerheads check prices while camping out for releases. others have used the data to validate insurance claims. and the top investment banks in the world now use resell data to analyze the retail footwear industry. and here's the best part: sneakerheads have sneaker portfolios. sneakerheads can track the value of their collection over time, compare it to others, and have access to the same analytics you might for your online brokerage account. so sneakerhead dan builds his collection and identifies which 352 are his. he can see it's worth 103,000 dollars — frankly, a modest collection. at the asset level, he can see gain-loss by shoe. here he's made over 600 dollars on one pair. i have one of those. so an unregulated 1.2 billion dollar industry that thrives as much on the street as it does online, and has spawned fundamental financial services for sneakers? at some point i asked myself what's really going on in the market, and two comparisons started to emerge. are sneakers more like stocks or drugs? in fact, one guy emailed to say he thought his 15-year-old son was selling drugs and later found out he was selling sneakers. and now they use the data to do it together. and that's because sneakers are an investment opportunity where none other exists. and i don't just mean the kid selling sneakers instead of drugs. how about all kids? you have to be 18 to play the stock market. i sold chewing gum in sixth grade, blow pops in ninth grade and collected baseball cards through high school. the cards are long dead, and the candy market's usually quite local.for a lot of people, sneakers are a legal and accessible investment opportunity — a democratized stock market, but also unregulated. which is why the story you're probably most familiar with is people killing each other for sneakers. and while that definitely happens and is tragic, it's not nearly the epidemic some media would have you believe. in fact, it's a very small piece of a much bigger and better story.so sneakers have clear similarities to both the stock exchange and the illegal drug trade, but perhaps the most fundamental is the existence of a central actor. someone is making the rules. in the case of sneakers, that someone is nike.let me walk you through some numbers.the resell market, we know, is $1.2 billion. nike, including jordan brand, accounts for 96 percent of all shoes sold on the secondary market. just complete domination. sneakerheads love jordans. and profit on the secondary market is about a third. that means that sneakerheads made 380 million dollars selling nikes last year. let's jump to retail for a second. skechers, earlier this year, became the number two footwear brand in the country, surpassing adidas — this was a big deal. and in the 12 months ending in june, skechers's net income was 209 million dollars. that means that nike's customers make almost twice as much profit as their closest competitor. that — how is that even possible?the sneaker market is just supply and demand, but nike's gotten very good at using supply — limited sneakers — and the distribution of those sneakers to their own benefit. so it's really just supply. sneakerheads joke that as long as it's limited and nike, they'll buy it. shoes that sell for 8,000 dollars do so because they're very rare. it's no different than any other collectible market, only this isn't a market at all. it's a false construct created by nike — ingeniously created by nike, in the most positive sense — to sell more shoes. and in the process, it provided tens of thousands of people with life-long passions, myself included. if nike wanted to kill the resell market, they could do so tomorrow, all they have to do is release more shoes. but we certainly don't want them to, nor is it in their best interest. that's because unlike apple, who will sell an iphone to anyone who wants one, nike doesn't make their money by just selling $200 sneakers. they sell millions of shoes to millions of people for 60 dollars. and sneakerheads are the ones who drive the marketing and the hype and the pr and the brand cachet, and enable nike to sell millions of $60 sneakers.it's marketing. it's marketing the likes of which has never been seen before — this isn't in any textbook. for 15 years nike has propped up an artificial commodities market, with a facebook-level hyped ipo every single weekend. drive by any footlocker at 8am on a saturday morning, and there will be a line down the street and around the block, and sometimes those kids have been waiting there all week. you know those crazy iphone lines you see on the news every other year? nike lines happen 104 times more often. so nike sets the rules. and they do so by controlling supply and distribution.but once a pair leaves the retail channel, it's the wild west. there are very few — if any — legal, unregulated markets of this size. so nike is definitely not the stock exchange. in fact, there is no central exchange. by last count, there were 48 different online markets that i know of. some are ebay clones, some are mobile markets, and then you have consignment shops and brick-and-mortar stores, and sneaker conventions, and reseller sites, and facebook and instagram and twitter — literally, anywhere sneakerheads come into contact with each other, shoes will be bought and sold.but that means no efficiencies, no transparency, sometimes not even authenticity. can you imagine if that's how stocks were bought? what if the way to buy a share of apple stock was to search over 100 places online and off, including every time you walk down the street just hoping to pass someone wearing some apple stock? never knowing who had the best price, or even if the stock you were looking at was real. that would surely make you say:[wtf?]of course that's not how we buy stock. but what if that's not how we need to buy sneakers either? what if the inverse is true, and what if we could buy sneakers exactly the same way as we buy stock? and what if it wasn't just sneakers, but any similar product, like watches and handbags and women's shoes, and any collectible, any seasonal item and any markdown item? what if there was a stock market for commerce? a stock market of things. and not only could you buy in a much more educated and efficient manner, but you could engage in all the sophisticated financial transactions you can with the stock market. shorts and options and futures and well, maybe you see where this is going. maybe you want to invest in a stock market of things. because if you had invested in a pair of air jordan 3 black cement in 2011, you could either be wearing them onstage, or have earned 162 percent on your money — double the s&p and 20 percent more than apple. and that's why we're talking about sneakers.thank you. <title = "The future of news? Virtual reality">
<tags = "['future', 'innovation', 'invention', 'journalism', 'media', 'news', 'storytelling', 'virtual reality', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Virtual reality pioneer">
what if i could present you a story that you would remember with your entire body and not just with your mind? my whole life as a journalist, i've really been compelled to try to make stories that can make a difference and maybe inspire people to care. i've worked in print. i've worked in documentary. i've worked in broadcast. but it really wasn't until i got involved with virtual reality that i started seeing these really intense, authentic reactions from people that really blew my mind.so the deal is that with vr, virtual reality, i can put you on scene in the middle of the story. by putting on these goggles that track wherever you look, you get this whole-body sensation, like you're actually, like, there. so five years ago was about when i really began to push the envelope with using virtual reality and journalism together. and i wanted to do a piece about hunger. families in america are going hungry, food banks are overwhelmed, and they're often running out of food. now, i knew i couldn't make people feel hungry, but maybe i could figure out a way to get them to feel something physical.so — again, this is five years ago — so doing journalism and virtual reality together was considered a worse-than-half-baked idea, and i had no funding. believe me, i had a lot of colleagues laughing at me. and i did, though, have a really great intern, a woman named michaela kobsa-mark. and together we went out to food banks and started recording audio and photographs. until one day she came back to my office and she was bawling, she was just crying. she had been on scene at a long line, where the woman running the line was feeling extremely overwhelmed, and she was screaming, "there's too many people! there's too many people!" and this man with diabetes doesn't get food in time, his blood sugar drops too low, and he collapses into a coma. as soon as i heard that audio, i knew that this would be the kind of evocative piece that could really describe what was going on at food banks.so here's the real line. you can see how long it was, right? and again, as i said, we didn't have very much funding, so i had to reproduce it with virtual humans that were donated, and people begged and borrowed favors to help me create the models and make things as accurate as we could. and then we tried to convey what happened that day with as much as accuracy as is possible.(video) voice: there's too many people! there's too many people!voice: ok, he's having a seizure.voice: we need an ambulance.nonny de la peña: so the man on the right, for him, he's walking around the body. for him, he's in the room with that body. like, that guy is at his feet. and even though, through his peripheral vision, he can see that he's in this lab space, he should be able to see that he's not actually on the street, but he feels like he's there with those people. he's very cautious not to step on this guy who isn't really there, right?so that piece ended up going to sundance in 2012, a kind of amazing thing, and it was the first virtual reality film ever, basically. and when we went, i was really terrified. i didn't really know how people were going to react and what was going to happen. and we showed up with this duct-taped pair of goggles.(video) oh, you're crying. you're crying. gina, you're crying.so you can hear the surprise in my voice, right? and this kind of reaction ended up being the kind of reaction we saw over and over and over: people down on the ground trying to comfort the seizure victim, trying to whisper something into his ear or in some way help, even though they couldn't. and i had a lot of people come out of that piece saying, "oh my god, i was so frustrated. i couldn't help the guy," and take that back into their lives.so after this piece was made, the dean of the cinema school at usc, the university of southern california, brought in the head of the world economic forum to try "hunger," and he took off the goggles, and he commissioned a piece about syria on the spot. and i really wanted to do something about syrian refugee kids, because children have been the worst affected by the syrian civil war. i sent a team to the border of iraq to record material at refugee camps, basically an area i wouldn't send a team now, as that's where isis is really operating. and then we also recreated a street scene in which a young girl is singing and a bomb goes off. now, when you're in the middle of that scene and you hear those sounds, and you see the injured around you, it's an incredibly scary and real feeling. i've had individuals who have been involved in real bombings tell me that it evokes the same kind of fear.[the civil war in syria may seem far away] [until you experience it yourself.](girl singing)(explosion)[project syria] [a virtual reality experience]np: we were then invited to take the piece to the victoria and albert museum in london. and it wasn't advertised. and we were put in this tapestry room. there was no press about it, so anybody who happened to walk into the museum to visit it that day would see us with these crazy lights. you know, maybe they would want to see the old storytelling of the tapestries. they were confronted by our virtual reality cameras. but a lot of people tried it, and over a five-day run we ended up with 54 pages of guest book comments, and we were told by the curators there that they'd never seen such an outpouring. things like, "it's so real," "absolutely believable," or, of course, the one that i was excited about, "a real feeling as if you were in the middle of something that you normally see on the tv news."so, it works, right? this stuff works. and it doesn't really matter where you're from or what age you are — it's really evocative.now, don't get me wrong — i'm not saying that when you're in a piece you forget that you're here. but it turns out we can feel like we're in two places at once. we can have what i call this duality of presence, and i think that's what allows me to tap into these feelings of empathy. right?so that means, of course, that i have to be very cautious about creating these pieces. i have to really follow best journalistic practices and make sure that these powerful stories are built with integrity. if we don't capture the material ourselves, we have to be extremely exacting about figuring out the provenance and where did this stuff come from and is it authentic?let me give you an example. with this trayvon martin case, this is a guy, a kid, who was 17 years old and he bought soda and a candy at a store, and on his way home he was tracked by a neighborhood watchman named george zimmerman who ended up shooting and killing him. to make that piece, we got the architectural drawings of the entire complex, and we rebuilt the entire scene inside and out, based on those drawings. all of the action is informed by the real 911 recorded calls to the police. and interestingly, we broke some news with this story. the forensic house that did the audio reconstruction, primeau productions, they say that they would testify that george zimmerman, when he got out of the car, he cocked his gun before he went to give chase to martin.so you can see that the basic tenets of journalism, they don't really change here, right? we're still following the same principles that we would always. what is different is the sense of being on scene, whether you're watching a guy collapse from hunger or feeling like you're in the middle of a bomb scene. and this is kind of what has driven me forward with these pieces, and thinking about how to make them. we're trying to make this, obviously, beyond the headset, more available. we're creating mobile pieces like the trayvon martin piece. and these things have had impact. i've had americans tell me that they've donated, direct deductions from their bank account, money to go to syrian children refugees. and "hunger in la," well, it's helped start a new form of doing journalism that i think is going to join all the other normal platforms in the future.thank you. <title = "My country will be underwater soon -- unless we work together">
<tags = "['big problems', 'climate change', 'environment', 'fish', 'future', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'mission blue', 'natural disaster', 'oceans', 'policy', 'pollution', 'science', 'social change']">
<occupation = "President of the Republic of Kiribati">
chris anderson: perhaps we could start by just telling us about your country. it's three dots there on the globe. those dots are pretty huge. i think each one is about the size of california. tell us about kiribati.anote tong: well, let me first begin by saying how deeply grateful i am for this opportunity to share my story with people who do care. i think i've been sharing my story with a lot of people who don't care too much. but kiribati is comprised of three groups of islands: the gilbert group on the west, we have the phoenix islands in the middle, and the line islands in the east. and quite frankly, kiribati is perhaps the only country that is actually in the four corners of the world, because we are in the northern hemisphere, in the southern hemisphere, and also in the east and the west of the international date line. these islands are entirely made up of coral atolls, and on average about two meters above sea level. and so this is what we have. usually not more than two kilometers in width. and so, on many occasions, i've been asked by people, "you know, you're suffering, why don't you move back?" they don't understand. they have no concept of what it is that's involved. with the rising sea, they say, "well, you can move back." and so this is what i tell them. if we move back, we will fall off on the other side of the ocean. ok? but these are the kinds of issues that people don't understand.ca: so certainly this is just a picture of fragility there. when was it that you yourself realized that there might be impending peril for your country?at: well, the story of climate change has been one that has been going on for quite a number of decades. and when i came into office in 2003, i began talking about climate change at the united nations general assembly, but not with so much passion, because then there was still this controversy among the scientists whether it was human-induced, whether it was real or it wasn't. but i think that that debate was fairly much concluded in 2007 with the fourth assessment report of the ipcc, which made a categorical statement that it is real, it's human-induced, and it's predicting some very serious scenarios for countries like mine. and so that's when i got very serious. in the past, i talked about it. we were worried. but when the scenarios, the predictions came in 2007, it became a real issue for us.ca: now, those predictions are, i think, that by 2100, sea levels are forecast to rise perhaps three feet. there's scenarios where it's higher than that, for sure, but what would you say to a skeptic who said, "what's three feet? you're on average six feet above sea level. what's the problem?"at: well, i think it's got to be understood that a marginal rise in sea level would mean a loss of a lot of land, because much of the land is low. and quite apart from that, we are getting the swells at the moment. so it's not about getting two feet. i think what many people do not understand is they think climate change is something that is happening in the future. well, we're at the very bottom end of the spectrum. it's already with us. we have communities who already have been dislocated. they have had to move, and every parliament session, i'm getting complaints from different communities asking for assistance to build seawalls, to see what we can do about the freshwater lens because it's being destroyed, and so in my trips to the different islands, i'm seeing evidence of communities which are now having to cope with the loss of food crops, the contamination of the water lenses, and i see these communities perhaps leaving, having to relocate, within five to 10 years.ca: and then, i think the country suffered its first cyclone, and this is connected, yes? what happened here?at: well, we're on the equator, and i'm sure many of you understand that when you're on the equator, it's supposed to be in the doldrums. we're not supposed to get the cyclones. we create them, and then we send them either north or south. but they aren't supposed to come back. but for the first time, at the beginning of this year, the cyclone pam, which destroyed vanuatu, and in the process, the very edges of it actually touched our two southernmost islands, and all of tuvalu was underwater when hurricane pam struck. but for our two southernmost islands, we had waves come over half the island, and so this has never happened before. it's a new experience. and i've just come back from my own constituency, and i've seen these beautiful trees which had been there for decades, they've been totally destroyed. so this is what's happening, but when we talk about the rising sea level, we think it's something that happens gradually. it comes with the winds, it comes with the swells, and so they can be magnified, but what we are beginning to witness is the change in the weather pattern, which is perhaps the more urgent challenge that we will face sooner than perhaps the rising sea level.ca: so the country is already seeing effects now. as you look forward, what are your options as a country, as a nation?at: well, i've been telling this story every year. i think i visit a number of — i've been traveling the world to try and get people to understand. we have a plan, we think we have a plan. and on one occasion, i think i spoke in geneva and there was a gentleman who was interviewing me on something like this, and i said, "we are looking at floating islands," and he thought it was funny, but somebody said, "no, this is not funny. these people are looking for solutions." and so i have been looking at floating islands. the japanese are interested in building floating islands.but, as a country, we have made a commitment that no matter what happens, we will try as much as possible to stay and continue to exist as a nation. what that will take, it's going to be something quite significant, very, very substantial. either we live on floating islands, or we have to build up the islands to continue to stay out of the water as the sea level rises and as the storms get more severe. but even that, it's going to be very, very difficult to get the kind of resourcing that we would need.ca: and then the only recourse is some form of forced migration.at: well, we are also looking at that because in the event that nothing comes forward from the international community, we are preparing, we don't want to be caught like what's happening in europe. ok? we don't want to mass migrate at some point in time. we want to be able to give the people the choice today, those who choose and want to do that, to migrate. we don't want something to happen that they are forced to migrate without having been prepared to do so. of course, our culture is very different, our society is very different, and once we migrate into a different environment, a different culture, there's a whole lot of adjustments that are required.ca: well, there's forced migration in your country's past, and i think just this week, just yesterday or the day before yesterday, you visited these people. what happened here? what's the story here?at: yes, and i'm sorry, i think somebody was asking why we were sneaking off to visit that place. i had a very good reason, because we have a community of kiribati people living in that part of the solomon islands, but these were people who were relocated from the phoenix islands, in fact, in the 1960s. there was serious drought, and the people could not continue to live on the island, and so they were moved to live here in the solomon islands. and so yesterday it was very interesting to meet with these people. they didn't know who i was. they hadn't heard of me. some of them later recognized me, but i think they were very happy. later they really wanted to have the opportunity to welcome me formally. but i think what i saw yesterday was very interesting because here i see our people. i spoke in our language, and of course they spoke back, they replied, but their accent, they are beginning not to be able to speak kiribati properly. i saw them, there was this lady with red teeth. she was chewing betel nuts, and it's not something we do in kiribati. we don't chew betel nuts. i met also a family who have married the local people here, and so this is what is happening. as you go into another community, there are bound to be changes. there is bound to be a certain loss of identity, and this is what we will be looking for in the future if and when we do migrate.ca: it must have been just an extraordinarily emotional day because of these questions about identity, the joy of seeing you and perhaps an emphasized sense of what they had lost. and it's very inspiring to hear you say you're going to fight to the end to try to preserve the nation in a location.at: this is our wish. nobody wants ever to leave their home, and so it's been a very difficult decision for me. as a leader, you don't make plans to leave your island, your home, and so i've been asked on a number of occasions, "so how do you feel?" and it doesn't feel good at all. it's an emotional thing, and i've tried to live with it, and i know that on occasions, i'm accused of not trying to solve the problem because i can't solve the problem. it's something that's got to be done collectively.climate change is a global phenomenon, and as i've often argued, unfortunately, the countries, when we come to the united nations — i was in a meeting with the pacific island forum countries where australia and new zealand are also members, and we had an argument. there was a bit of a story in the news because they were arguing that to cut emissions, it would be something that they're unable to do because it would affect the industries. and so here i was saying, ok, i hear you, i understand what you're saying, but try also to understand what i'm saying because if you do not cut your emissions, then our survival is on the line. and so it's a matter for you to weigh this, these moral issues. it's about industry as opposed to the survival of a people.ca: you know, i ask you yesterday what made you angry, and you said, "i don't get angry." but then you paused. i think this made you angry.at: i'd refer you to my earlier statement at the united nations. i was very angry, very frustrated and then depressed. there was a sense of futility that we are fighting a fight that we have no hope of winning. i had to change my approach. i had to become more reasonable because i thought people would listen to somebody who was rational, but i remain radically rational, whatever that is. ca: now, a core part of your nation's identity is fishing. i think you said pretty much everyone is involved in fishing in some way.at: well, we eat fish every day, every day, and i think there is no doubt that our rate of consumption of fish is perhaps the highest in the world. we don't have a lot of livestock, so it's fish that we depend on.ca: so you're dependent on fish, both at the local level and for the revenues that the country receives from the global fishing business for tuna, and yet despite that, a few years ago you took a very radical step. can you tell us about that? i think something happened right here in the phoenix islands.at: let me give some of the background of what fish means for us. we have one of the largest tuna fisheries remaining in the world. in the pacific, i think we own something like 60 percent of the remaining tuna fisheries, and it remains relatively healthy for some species, but not all. and kiribati is one of the three major resource owners, tuna resource owners. and at the moment, we have been getting something like 80 to 90 percent of our revenue from access fees, license fees.ca: of your national revenue.at: national revenue, which drives everything that we do in governments, hospitals, schools and what have you. but we decided to close this, and it was a very difficult decision. i can assure you, politically, locally, it was not easy, but i was convinced that we had to do this in order to ensure that the fishery remains sustainable. there had been some indications that some of the species, in particular the bigeye, was under serious threat. the yellowfin was also heavily fished. skipjack remains healthy. and so we had to do something like that, and so that was the reason i did that. another reason why i did that was because i had been asking the international community that in order to deal with climate change, in order to fight climate change, there has got to be sacrifice, there has got to be commitment. so in asking the international community to make a sacrifice, i thought we ourselves need to make that sacrifice. and so we made the sacrifice. and forgoing commercial fishing in the phoenix islands protected area would mean a loss of revenue. we are still trying to assess what that loss would be because we actually closed it off at the beginning of this year, and so we will see by the end of this year what it means in terms of the lost revenue.ca: so there's so many things playing into this. on the one hand, it may prompt healthier fisheries. i mean, how much are you able to move the price up that you charge for the remaining areas?at: the negotiations have been very difficult, but we have managed to raise the cost of a vessel day. for any vessel to come in to fish for a day, we have raised the fee from — it was $6,000 and $8,000, now to $10,000, $12,000 per vessel day. and so there's been that significant increase. but at the same time, what's important to note is, whereas in the past these fishing boats might be fishing in a day and maybe catch 10 tons, now they're catching maybe 100 tons because they've become so efficient. and so we've got to respond likewise. we've got to be very, very careful because the technology has so improved. there was a time when the brazilian fleet moved from the atlantic to the pacific. they couldn't. they started experimenting if they could, per se. but now they've got ways of doing it, and they've become so efficient.ca: can you give us a sense of what it's like in those negotiations? because you're up against companies that have hundreds of millions of dollars at stake, essentially. how do you hold the line? is there any advice you can give to other leaders who are dealing with the same companies about how to get the most for your country, get the most for the fish? what advice would you give?at: well, i think we focus too often on licensing in order to get the rate of return, because what we are getting from license fees is about 10 percent of the landed value of the catch on the side of the wharf, not in the retail shops. and we only get about 10 percent. what we have been trying to do over the years is actually to increase our participation in the industry, in the harvesting, in the processing, and eventually, hopefully, the marketing. they're not easy to penetrate, but we are working towards that, and yes, the answer would be to enhance. in order to increase our rate of return, we have to become more involved. and so we've started doing that, and we have to restructure the industry. we've got to tell these people that the world has changed. now we want to produce the fish ourselves.ca: and meanwhile, for your local fishermen, they are still able to fish, but what is business like for them? is it getting harder? are the waters depleted? or is that being run on a sustainable basis?at: for the artisanal fishery, we do not participate in the commercial fishing activity except only to supply the domestic market. the tuna fishery is really entirely for the foreign market, mostly here in the us, europe, japan. so i am a fisherman, very much, and i used to be able to catch yellowfin. now it's very, very rare to be able to catch yellowfin because they are being lifted out of the water by the hundreds of tons by these purse seiners.ca: so here's a couple of beautiful girls from your country. i mean, as you think about their future, what message would you have for them and what message would you have for the world?at: well, i've been telling the world that we really have to do something about what is happening to the climate because for us, it's about the future of these children. i have 12 grandchildren, at least. i think i have 12, my wife knows. and i think i have eight children. it's about their future. every day i see my grandchildren, about the same age as these young girls, and i do wonder, and i get angry sometimes, yes i do. i wonder what is to become of them. and so it's about them that we should be telling everybody, that it's not about their own national interest, because climate change, regrettably, unfortunately, is viewed by many countries as a national problem. it's not. and this is the argument we got into recently with our partners, the australians and new zealanders, because they said, "we can't cut any more." this is what one of the leaders, the australian leader, said, that we've done our part, we are cutting back. i said, what about the rest? why don't you keep it? if you could keep the rest of your emissions within your boundaries, within your borders, we'd have no question. you can go ahead as much as you like. but unfortunately, you're sending it our way, and it's affecting the future of our children. and so surely i think that is the heart of the problem of climate change today.we will be meeting in paris at the end of this year, but until we can think of this as a global phenomenon, because we create it, individually, as nations, but it affects everybody else, and yet, we refuse to do anything about it, and we deal with it as a national problem, which it is not — it is a global issue, and it's got to be dealt with collectively.ca: people are incredibly bad at responding to graphs and numbers, and we shut our minds to it. somehow, to people, we're slightly better at responding to that sometimes. and it seems like it's very possible that your nation, despite, actually because of the intense problems you face, you may yet be the warning light to the world that shines most visibly, most powerfully. i just want to thank you, i'm sure, on behalf of all of us, for your extraordinary leadership and for being here.mr. president, thank you so much.at: thank you. <title = "What are animals thinking and feeling?">
<tags = "['animals', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'birds', 'brain', 'cognitive science', 'consciousness', 'conservation', 'empathy', 'environment', 'evolution', 'fish', 'life', 'love', 'mental health', 'mind', 'mission blue', 'monkeys', 'neuroscience', 'oceans', 'science']">
<occupation = "Ecologist, writer">
have you ever wondered what animals think and feel? let's start with a question: does my dog really love me, or does she just want a treat? well, it's easy to see that our dog really loves us, easy to see, right, what's going on in that fuzzy little head. what is going on? something's going on.but why is the question always do they love us? why is it always about us? why are we such narcissists? i found a different question to ask animals. who are you?there are capacities of the human mind that we tend to think are capacities only of the human mind. but is that true? what are other beings doing with those brains? what are they thinking and feeling? is there a way to know? i think there is a way in. i think there are several ways in. we can look at evolution, we can look at their brains and we can watch what they do.the first thing to remember is: our brain is inherited. the first neurons came from jellyfish. jellyfish gave rise to the first chordates. the first chordates gave rise to the first vertebrates. the vertebrates came out of the sea, and here we are. but it's still true that a neuron, a nerve cell, looks the same in a crayfish, a bird or you. what does that say about the minds of crayfish? can we tell anything about that? well, it turns out that if you give a crayfish a lot of little tiny electric shocks every time it tries to come out of its burrow, it will develop anxiety. if you give the crayfish the same drug used to treat anxiety disorder in humans, it relaxes and comes out and explores. how do we show how much we care about crayfish anxiety? mostly, we boil them. octopuses use tools, as well as do most apes and they recognize human faces. how do we celebrate the ape-like intelligence of this invertebrate? mostly boiled. if a grouper chases a fish into a crevice in the coral, it will sometimes go to where it knows a moray eel is sleeping and it will signal to the moray, "follow me," and the moray will understand that signal. the moray may go into the crevice and get the fish, but the fish may bolt and the grouper may get it. this is an ancient partnership that we have just recently found out about. how do we celebrate that ancient partnership? mostly fried. a pattern is emerging and it says a lot more about us than it does about them.sea otters use tools and they take time away from what they're doing to show their babies what to do, which is called teaching. chimpanzees don't teach. killer whales teach and killer whales share food.when evolution makes something new, it uses the parts it has in stock, off the shelf, before it fabricates a new twist. and our brain has come to us through the enormity of the deep sweep of time. if you look at the human brain compared to a chimpanzee brain, what you see is we have basically a very big chimpanzee brain. it's a good thing ours is bigger, because we're also really insecure. but, uh oh, there's a dolphin, a bigger brain with more convolutions. ok, maybe you're saying, all right, well, we see brains, but what does that have to say about minds? well, we can see the working of the mind in the logic of behaviors. so these elephants, you can see, obviously, they are resting. they have found a patch of shade under the palm trees under which to let their babies sleep, while they doze but remain vigilant. we make perfect sense of that image just as they make perfect sense of what they're doing because under the arc of the same sun on the same plains, listening to the howls of the same dangers, they became who they are and we became who we are.we've been neighbors for a very long time. no one would mistake these elephants as being relaxed. they're obviously very concerned about something. what are they concerned about? it turns out that if you record the voices of tourists and you play that recording from a speaker hidden in bushes, elephants will ignore it, because tourists never bother elephants. but if you record the voices of herders who carry spears and often hurt elephants in confrontations at water holes, the elephants will bunch up and run away from the hidden speaker. not only do elephants know that there are humans, they know that there are different kinds of humans, and that some are ok and some are dangerous.they have been watching us for much longer than we have been watching them. they know us better than we know them. we have the same imperatives: take care of our babies, find food, try to stay alive. whether we're outfitted for hiking in the hills of africa or outfitted for diving under the sea, we are basically the same. we are kin under the skin. the elephant has the same skeleton, the killer whale has the same skeleton, as do we. we see helping where help is needed. we see curiosity in the young. we see the bonds of family connections. we recognize affection. courtship is courtship. and then we ask, "are they conscious?"when you get general anesthesia, it makes you unconscious, which means you have no sensation of anything. consciousness is simply the thing that feels like something. if you see, if you hear, if you feel, if you're aware of anything, you are conscious, and they are conscious.some people say well, there are certain things that make humans humans, and one of those things is empathy. empathy is the mind's ability to match moods with your companions. it's a very useful thing. if your companions start to move quickly, you have to feel like you need to hurry up. we're all in a hurry now. the oldest form of empathy is contagious fear. if your companions suddenly startle and fly away, it does not work very well for you to say, "jeez, i wonder why everybody just left." empathy is old, but empathy, like everything else in life, comes on a sliding scale and has its elaboration. so there's basic empathy: you feel sad, it makes me sad. i see you happy, it makes me happy.then there's something that i call sympathy, a little more removed: "i'm sorry to hear that your grandmother has just passed away. i don't feel that same grief, but i get it; i know what you feel and it concerns me."and then if we're motivated to act on sympathy, i call that compassion.far from being the thing that makes us human, human empathy is far from perfect. we round up empathic creatures, we kill them and we eat them. now, maybe you say ok, well, those are different species. that's just predation, and humans are predators. but we don't treat our own kind too well either. people who seem to know only one thing about animal behavior know that you must never attribute human thoughts and emotions to other species. well, i think that's silly, because attributing human thoughts and emotions to other species is the best first guess about what they're doing and how they're feeling, because their brains are basically the same as ours. they have the same structures. the same hormones that create mood and motivation in us are in those brains as well. it is not scientific to say that they are hungry when they're hunting and they're tired when their tongues are hanging out, and then say when they're playing with their children and acting joyful and happy, we have no idea if they can possibly be experiencing anything. that is not scientific.so ok, so a reporter said to me, "maybe, but how do you really know that other animals can think and feel?" and i started to rifle through all the hundreds of scientific references that i put in my book and i realized that the answer was right in the room with me. when my dog gets off the rug and comes over to me — not to the couch, to me — and she rolls over on her back and exposes her belly, she has had the thought, "i would like my belly rubbed. i know that i can go over to carl, he will understand what i'm asking. i know i can trust him because we're family. he'll get the job done, and it will feel good." she has thought and she has felt, and it's really not more complicated than that.but we see other animals and we say, "oh look, killer whales, wolves, elephants: that's not how they see it."that tall-finned male is l41. he's 38 years old. the female right on his left side is l22. she's 44. they've known each other for decades. they know exactly who they are. they know who their friends are. they know who their rivals are. their life follows the arc of a career. they know where they are all the time.this is an elephant named philo. he was a young male. this is him four days later. humans not only can feel grief, we create an awful lot of it. we want to carve their teeth. why can't we wait for them to die? elephants once ranged from the shores of the mediterranean sea all the way down to the cape of good hope. in 1980, there were vast strongholds of elephant range in central and eastern africa. and now their range is shattered into little shards. this is the geography of an animal that we are driving to extinction, a fellow being, the most magnificent creature on land.of course, we take much better care of our wildlife in the united states. in yellowstone national park, we killed every single wolf. we killed every single wolf south of the canadian border, actually. but in the park, park rangers did that in the 1920s, and then 60 years later they had to bring them back, because the elk numbers had gotten out of control. and then people came. people came by the thousands to see the wolves, the most accessibly visible wolves in the world.and i went there and i watched this incredible family of wolves. a pack is a family. it has some breeding adults and the young of several generations. and i watched the most famous, most stable pack in yellowstone national park. and then, when they wandered just outside the border, two of their adults were killed, including the mother, which we sometimes call the alpha female. the rest of the family immediately descended into sibling rivalry. sisters kicked out other sisters. that one on the left tried for days to rejoin her family. they wouldn't let her because they were jealous of her. she was getting too much attention from two new males, and she was the precocious one. that was too much for them. she wound up wandering outside the park and getting shot. the alpha male wound up being ejected from his own family. as winter was coming in, he lost his territory, his hunting support, the members of his family and his mate.we cause so much pain to them. the mystery is, why don't they hurt us more than they do? this whale had just finished eating part of a grey whale with his companions who had killed that whale. those people in the boat had nothing at all to fear. this whale is t20. he had just finished tearing a seal into three pieces with two companions. the seal weighed about as much as the people in the boat. they had nothing to fear. they eat seals. why don't they eat us? why can we trust them around our toddlers? why is it that killer whales have returned to researchers lost in thick fog and led them miles until the fog parted and the researchers' home was right there on the shoreline? and that's happened more than one time.in the bahamas, there's a woman named denise herzing, and she studies spotted dolphins and they know her. she knows them very well. she knows who they all are. they know her. they recognize the research boat. when she shows up, it's a big happy reunion. except, one time showed up and they didn't want to come near the boat, and that was really strange. and they couldn't figure out what was going on until somebody came out on deck and announced that one of the people onboard had died during a nap in his bunk. how could dolphins know that one of the human hearts had just stopped? why would they care? and why would it spook them? these mysterious things just hint at all of the things that are going on in the minds that are with us on earth that we almost never think about at all.at an aquarium in south africa was a little baby bottle-nosed dolphin named dolly. she was nursing, and one day a keeper took a cigarette break and he was looking into the window into their pool, smoking. dolly came over and looked at him, went back to her mother, nursed for a minute or two, came back to the window and released a cloud of milk that enveloped her head like smoke. somehow, this baby bottle-nosed dolphin got the idea of using milk to represent smoke. when human beings use one thing to represent another, we call that art. the things that make us human are not the things that we think make us human. what makes us human is that, of all these things that our minds and their minds have, we are the most extreme. we are the most compassionate, most violent, most creative and most destructive animal that has ever been on this planet, and we are all of those things all jumbled up together. but love is not the thing that makes us human. it's not special to us. we are not the only ones who care about our mates. we are not the only ones who care about our children.albatrosses frequently fly six, sometimes ten thousand miles over several weeks to deliver one meal, one big meal, to their chick who is waiting for them. they nest on the most remote islands in the oceans of the world, and this is what it looks like. passing life from one generation to the next is the chain of being. if that stops, it all goes away. if anything is sacred, that is, and into that sacred relationship comes our plastic trash. all of these birds have plastic in them now. this is an albatross six months old, ready to fledge — died, packed with red cigarette lighters.this is not the relationship we are supposed to have with the rest of the world. but we, who have named ourselves after our brains, never think about the consequences. when we welcome new human life into the world, we welcome our babies into the company of other creatures. we paint animals on the walls. we don't paint cell phones. we don't paint work cubicles. we paint animals to show them that we are not alone. we have company. and every one of those animals in every painting of noah's ark, deemed worthy of salvation is in mortal danger now, and their flood is us.so we started with a question: do they love us? we're going to ask another question. are we capable of using what we have to care enough to simply let them continue?thank you very much. <title = "Why are these 32 symbols found in ancient caves all over Europe?">
<tags = "['Europe', 'TED Fellows', 'ancient world', 'anthropology', 'art', 'communication', 'history', 'humanity', 'invention', 'language', 'science', 'science and art', 'visualizations', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Paleoanthropologist and rock art researcher">
there's something about caves — a shadowy opening in a limestone cliff that draws you in. as you pass through the portal between light and dark, you enter a subterranean world — a place of perpetual gloom, of earthy smells, of hushed silence.long ago in europe, ancient people also entered these underground worlds. as witness to their passage, they left behind mysterious engravings and paintings, like this panel of humans, triangles and zigzags from ojo guareña in spain. you now walk the same path as these early artists. and in this surreal, otherworldly place, it's almost possible to imagine that you hear the muffled footfall of skin boots on soft earth, or that you see the flickering of a torch around the next bend.when i'm in a cave, i often find myself wondering what drove these people to go so deep to brave dangerous and narrow passageways to leave their mark? in this video clip, that was shot half a kilometer, or about a third of a mile, underground, in the cave of cudon in spain, we found a series of red paintings on a ceiling in a previously unexplored section of the cave. as we crawled forward, military-style, with the ceiling getting ever lower, we finally got to a point where the ceiling was so low that my husband and project photographer, dylan, could no longer achieve focus on the ceiling with his dslr camera. so while he filmed me, i kept following the trail of red paint with a single light and a point-and-shoot camera that we kept for that type of occasion. half a kilometer underground.seriously. what was somebody doing down there with a torch or a stone lamp? i mean — me, it makes sense, right?but you know, this is the kind of question that i'm trying to answer with my research. i study some of the oldest art in the world. it was created by these early artists in europe, between 10,000 and 40,000 years ago. and the thing is that i'm not just studying it because it's beautiful, though some of it certainly is. but what i'm interested in is the development of the modern mind, of the evolution of creativity, of imagination, of abstract thought, about what it means to be human. while all species communicate in one way or another, only we humans have really taken it to another level. our desire and ability to share and collaborate has been a huge part of our success story. our modern world is based on a global network of information exchange made possible, in large part, by our ability to communicate — in particular, using graphic or written forms of communication. the thing is, though, that we've been building on the mental achievements of those that came before us for so long that it's easy to forget that certain abilities haven't already existed. it's one of the things i find most fascinating about studying our deep history. those people didn't have the shoulders of any giants to stand on. they were the original shoulders. and while a surprising number of important inventions come out of that distant time, what i want to talk to you about today is the invention of graphic communication.there are three main types of communication, spoken, gestural — so things like sign language — and graphic communication. spoken and gestural are by their very nature ephemeral. it requires close contact for a message to be sent and received. and after the moment of transmission, it's gone forever. graphic communication, on the other hand, decouples that relationship. and with its invention, it became possible for the first time for a message to be transmitted and preserved beyond a single moment in place and time.europe is one of the first places that we start to see graphic marks regularly appearing in caves, rock shelters and even a few surviving open-air sites. but this is not the europe we know today. this was a world dominated by towering ice sheets, three to four kilometers high, with sweeping grass plains and frozen tundra. this was the ice age.over the last century, more than 350 ice age rock art sites have been found across the continent, decorated with animals, abstract shapes and even the occasional human like these engraved figures from grotta dell'addaura in sicily. they provide us with a rare glimpse into the creative world and imagination of these early artists.since their discovery, it's been the animals that have received the majority of the study like this black horse from cullalvera in spain, or this unusual purple bison from la pasiega. but for me, it was the abstract shapes, what we call geometric signs, that drew me to study the art. the funny this is that at most sites the geometric signs far outnumber the animal and human images. but when i started on this back in 2007, there wasn't even a definitive list of how many shapes there were, nor was there a strong sense of whether the same ones appeared across space or time. before i could even get started on my questions, my first step was to compile a database of all known geometric signs from all of the rock art sites. the problem was that while they were well documented at some sites, usually the ones with the very nice animals, there was also a large number of them where it was very vague — there wasn't a lot of description or detail. some of them hadn't been visited in half a century or more. these were the ones that i targeted for my field work.over the course of two years, my faithful husband dylan and i each spent over 300 hours underground, hiking, crawling and wriggling around 52 sites in france, spain, portugal and sicily. and it was totally worth it. we found new, undocumented geometric signs at 75 percent of the sites we visited. this is the level of accuracy i knew i was going to need if i wanted to start answering those larger questions.so let's get to those answers. barring a handful of outliers, there are only 32 geometric signs. only 32 signs across a 30,000-year time span and the entire continent of europe. that is a very small number. now, if these were random doodles or decorations, we would expect to see a lot more variation, but instead what we find are the same signs repeating across both space and time. some signs start out strong, before losing popularity and vanishing, while other signs are later inventions. but 65 percent of those signs stayed in use during that entire time period — things like lines, rectangles triangles, ovals and circles like we see here from the end of the ice age, at a 10,000-year-old site high in the pyrenees mountains. and while certain signs span thousands of kilometers, other signs had much more restricted distribution patterns, with some being limited to a single territory, like we see here with these divided rectangles that are only found in northern spain, and which some researchers have speculated could be some sort of family or clan signs.on a side note, there is surprising degree of similarity in the earliest rock art found all the way from france and spain to indonesia and australia. with many of the same signs appearing in such far-flung places, especially in that 30,000 to 40,000-year range, it's starting to seem increasingly likely that this invention actually traces back to a common point of origin in africa. but that i'm afraid, is a subject for a future talk.so back to the matter at hand. there could be no doubt that these signs were meaningful to their creators, like these 25,000-year-old bas-relief sculptures from la roque de venasque in france. we might not know what they meant, but the people of the time certainly did. the repetition of the same signs, for so long, and at so many sites tells us that the artists were making intentional choices. if we're talking about geometric shapes, with specific, culturally recognized, agreed-upon meanings, than we could very well be looking at one of the oldest systems of graphic communication in the world.i'm not talking about writing yet. there's just not enough characters at this point to have represented all of the words in the spoken language, something which is a requirement for a full writing system. nor do we see the signs repeating regularly enough to suggest that they were some sort of alphabet. but what we do have are some intriguing one-offs, like this panel from la pasiega in spain, known as "the inscription," with its symmetrical markings on the left, possible stylized representations of hands in the middle, and what looks a bit like a bracket on the right.the oldest systems of graphic communication in the world — sumerian cuneiform, egyptian hieroglyphs, the earliest chinese script, all emerged between 4,000 and 5,000 years ago, with each coming into existence from an earlier protosystem made up of counting marks and pictographic representations, where the meaning and the image were the same. so a picture of a bird would really have represented that animal. it's only later that we start to see these pictographs become more stylized, until they almost become unrecognizable and that we also start to see more symbols being invented to represent all those other missing words in language — things like pronouns, adverbs, adjectives.so knowing all this, it seems highly unlikely that the geometric signs from ice age europe were truly abstract written characters. instead, what's much more likely is that these early artists were also making counting marks, maybe like this row of lines from riparo di za minic in sicily, as well as creating stylized representations of things from the world around them. could some of the signs be weaponry or housing? or what about celestial objects like star constellations? or maybe even rivers, mountains, trees — landscape features, possibly like this black penniform surrounded by strange bell-shaped signs from the site of el castillo in spain. the term penniform means "feather-shaped" in latin, but could this actually be a depiction of a plant or a tree? some researchers have begun to ask these questions about certain signs at specific sites, but i believe the time has come to revisit this category as a whole. the irony in all of this, of course, is that having just carefully classified all of the signs into a single category, i have a feeling that my next step will involve breaking it back apart as different types of imagery are identified and separated off.now don't get me wrong, the later creation of fully developed writing was an impressive feat in its own right. but it's important to remember that those early writing systems didn't come out of a vacuum. and that even 5,000 years ago, people were already building on something much older, with its origins stretching back tens of thousands of years — to the geometric signs of ice age europe and far beyond, to that point, deep in our collective history, when someone first came up with the idea of making a graphic mark, and forever changed the nature of how we communicate.thank you. <title = "My year reading a book from every country in the world">
<tags = "['books', 'goal-setting', 'library', 'literature', 'personal growth', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer, blogger, author">
it's often said that you can tell a lot about a person by looking at what's on their bookshelves. what do my bookshelves say about me? well, when i asked myself this question a few years ago, i made an alarming discovery. i'd always thought of myself as a fairly cultured, cosmopolitan sort of person. but my bookshelves told a rather different story. pretty much all the titles on them were by british or north american authors, and there was almost nothing in translation. discovering this massive, cultural blind spot in my reading came as quite a shock.and when i thought about it, it seemed like a real shame. i knew there had to be lots of amazing stories out there by writers working in languages other than english. and it seemed really sad to think that my reading habits meant i would probably never encounter them. so, i decided to prescribe myself an intensive course of global reading. 2012 was set to be a very international year for the uk; it was the year of the london olympics. and so i decided to use it as my time frame to try to read a novel, short story collection or memoir from every country in the world. and so i did. and it was very exciting and i learned some remarkable things and made some wonderful connections that i want to share with you today.but it started with some practical problems. after i'd worked out which of the many different lists of countries in the world to use for my project, i ended up going with the list of un-recognized nations, to which i added taiwan, which gave me a total of 196 countries. and after i'd worked out how to fit reading and blogging about, roughly, four books a week around working five days a week,i then had to face up to the fact that i might even not be able to get books in english from every country. only around 4.5 percent of the literary works published each year in the uk are translations, and the figures are similar for much of the english-speaking world. although, the proportion of translated books published in many other countries is a lot higher. 4.5 percent is tiny enough to start with, but what that figure doesn't tell you is that many of those books will come from countries with strong publishing networks and lots of industry professionals primed to go out and sell those titles to english-language publishers. so, for example, although well over 100 books are translated from french and published in the uk each year, most of them will come from countries like france or switzerland. french-speaking africa, on the other hand, will rarely ever get a look-in.the upshot is that there are actually quite a lot of nations that may have little or even no commercially available literature in english. their books remain invisible to readers of the world's most published language. but when it came to reading the world, the biggest challenge of all for me was that fact that i didn't know where to start. having spent my life reading almost exclusively british and north american books, i had no idea how to go about sourcing and finding stories and choosing them from much of the rest of the world. i couldn't tell you how to source a story from swaziland. i wouldn't know a good novel from namibia. there was no hiding it — i was a clueless literary xenophobe. so how on earth was i going to read the world?i was going to have to ask for help. so in october 2011, i registered my blog, ayearofreadingtheworld.com, and i posted a short appeal online. i explained who i was, how narrow my reading had been, and i asked anyone who cared to to leave a message suggesting what i might read from other parts of the planet. now, i had no idea whether anyone would be interested, but within a few hours of me posting that appeal online, people started to get in touch. at first, it was friends and colleagues. then it was friends of friends. and pretty soon, it was strangers.four days after i put that appeal online, i got a message from a woman called rafidah in kuala lumpur. she said she loved the sound of my project, could she go to her local english-language bookshop and choose my malaysian book and post it to me? i accepted enthusiastically, and a few weeks later, a package arrived containing not one, but two books — rafidah's choice from malaysia, and a book from singapore that she had also picked out for me. now, at the time, i was amazed that a stranger more than 6,000 miles away would go to such lengths to help someone she would probably never meet.but rafidah's kindness proved to be the pattern for that year. time and again, people went out of their way to help me. some took on research on my behalf, and others made detours on holidays and business trips to go to bookshops for me. it turns out, if you want to read the world, if you want to encounter it with an open mind, the world will help you. when it came to countries with little or no commercially available literature in english, people went further still.books often came from surprising sources. my panamanian read, for example, came through a conversation i had with the panama canal on twitter. yes, the panama canal has a twitter account. and when i tweeted at it about my project, it suggested that i might like to try and get hold of the work of the panamanian author juan david morgan. i found morgan's website and i sent him a message, asking if any of his spanish-language novels had been translated into english. and he said that nothing had been published, but he did have an unpublished translation of his novel "the golden horse." he emailed this to me, allowing me to become one of the first people ever to read that book in english.morgan was by no means the only wordsmith to share his work with me in this way. from sweden to palau, writers and translators sent me self-published books and unpublished manuscripts of books that hadn't been picked up by anglophone publishers or that were no longer available, giving me privileged glimpses of some remarkable imaginary worlds. i read, for example, about the southern african king ngungunhane, who led the resistance against the portuguese in the 19th century; and about marriage rituals in a remote village on the shores of the caspian sea in turkmenistan. i met kuwait's answer to bridget jones. and i read about an orgy in a tree in angola.but perhaps the most amazing example of the lengths that people were prepared to go to to help me read the world, came towards the end of my quest, when i tried to get hold of a book from the tiny, portuguese-speaking african island nation of são tomé and príncipe. now, having spent several months trying everything i could think of to find a book that had been translated into english from the nation, it seemed as though the only option left to me was to see if i could get something translated for me from scratch. now, i was really dubious whether anyone was going to want to help with this, and give up their time for something like that. but, within a week of me putting a call out on twitter and facebook for portuguese speakers, i had more people than i could involve in the project, including margaret jull costa, a leader in her field, who has translated the work of nobel prize winner josé saramago. with my nine volunteers in place, i managed to find a book by a são toméan author that i could buy enough copies of online. here's one of them. and i sent a copy out to each of my volunteers. they all took on a couple of short stories from this collection, stuck to their word, sent their translations back to me, and within six weeks, i had the entire book to read.in that case, as i found so often during my year of reading the world, my not knowing and being open about my limitations had become a big opportunity. when it came to são tomé and príncipe, it was a chance not only to learn something new and discover a new collection of stories, but also to bring together a group of people and facilitate a joint creative endeavor. my weakness had become the project's strength.the books i read that year opened my eyes to many things. as those who enjoy reading will know, books have an extraordinary power to take you out of yourself and into someone else's mindset, so that, for a while at least, you look at the world through different eyes. that can be an uncomfortable experience, particularly if you're reading a book from a culture that may have quite different values to your own. but it can also be really enlightening. wrestling with unfamiliar ideas can help clarify your own thinking. and it can also show up blind spots in the way you might have been looking at the world.when i looked back at much of the english-language literature i'd grown up with, for example, i began to see how narrow a lot of it was, compared to the richness that the world has to offer. and as the pages turned, something else started to happen, too. little by little, that long list of countries that i'd started the year with, changed from a rather dry, academic register of place names into living, breathing entities.now, i don't want to suggest that it's at all possible to get a rounded picture of a country simply by reading one book. but cumulatively, the stories i read that year made me more alive than ever before to the richness, diversity and complexity of our remarkable planet. it was as though the world's stories and the people who'd gone to such lengths to help me read them had made it real to me. these days, when i look at my bookshelves or consider the works on my e-reader, they tell a rather different story. it's the story of the power books have to connect us across political, geographical, cultural, social, religious divides. it's the tale of the potential human beings have to work together.and, it's testament to the extraordinary times we live in, where, thanks to the internet, it's easier than ever before for a stranger to share a story, a worldview, a book with someone she may never meet, on the other side of the planet. i hope it's a story i'm reading for many years to come. and i hope many more people will join me. if we all read more widely, there'd be more incentive for publishers to translate more books, and we would all be richer for that.thank you. <title = "Why the best hire might not have the perfect resume">
<tags = "['business', 'decision-making', 'entrepreneur', 'failure', 'goal-setting', 'leadership', 'mental health', 'personal growth', 'productivity', 'success', 'women in business', 'work']">
<occupation = "Human Resources Manager, UPS">
your company launches a search for an open position. the applications start rolling in, and the qualified candidates are identified. now the choosing begins. person a: ivy league, 4.0, flawless resume, great recommendations. all the right stuff. person b: state school, fair amount of job hopping, and odd jobs like cashier and singing waitress. but remember — both are qualified. so i ask you: who are you going to pick?my colleagues and i created very official terms to describe two distinct categories of candidates. we call a "the silver spoon," the one who clearly had advantages and was destined for success. and we call b "the scrapper," the one who had to fight against tremendous odds to get to the same point. you just heard a human resources director refer to people as silver spoons and scrappers — which is not exactly politically correct and sounds a bit judgmental. but before my human resources certification gets revoked — let me explain.a resume tells a story. and over the years, i've learned something about people whose experiences read like a patchwork quilt, that makes me stop and fully consider them before tossing their resumes away. a series of odd jobs may indicate inconsistency, lack of focus, unpredictability. or it may signal a committed struggle against obstacles. at the very least, the scrapper deserves an interview.to be clear, i don't hold anything against the silver spoon; getting into and graduating from an elite university takes a lot of hard work and sacrifice. but if your whole life has been engineered toward success, how will you handle the tough times? one person i hired felt that because he attended an elite university, there were certain assignments that were beneath him, like temporarily doing manual labor to better understand an operation. eventually, he quit. but on the flip side, what happens when your whole life is destined for failure and you actually succeed?i want to urge you to interview the scrapper. i know a lot about this because i am a scrapper. before i was born, my father was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, and he couldn't hold a job in spite of his brilliance. our lives were one part "cuckoo's nest," one part "awakenings" and one part "a beautiful mind." i'm the fourth of five children raised by a single mother in a rough neighborhood in brooklyn, new york. we never owned a home, a car, a washing machine, and for most of my childhood, we didn't even have a telephone. so i was highly motivated to understand the relationship between business success and scrappers, because my life could easily have turned out very differently. as i met successful business people and read profiles of high-powered leaders, i noticed some commonality.many of them had experienced early hardships, anywhere from poverty, abandonment, death of a parent while young, to learning disabilities, alcoholism and violence. the conventional thinking has been that trauma leads to distress, and there's been a lot of focus on the resulting dysfunction. but during studies of dysfunction, data revealed an unexpected insight: that even the worst circumstances can result in growth and transformation. a remarkable and counterintuitive phenomenon has been discovered, which scientists call post traumatic growth.in one study designed to measure the effects of adversity on children at risk, among a subset of 698 children who experienced the most severe and extreme conditions, fully one-third grew up to lead healthy, successful and productive lives. in spite of everything and against tremendous odds, they succeeded. one-third.take this resume. this guy's parents give him up for adoption. he never finishes college. he job-hops quite a bit, goes on a sojourn to india for a year, and to top it off, he has dyslexia. would you hire this guy? his name is steve jobs.in a study of the world's most highly successful entrepreneurs, it turns out a disproportionate number have dyslexia. in the us, 35 percent of the entrepreneurs studied had dyslexia. what's remarkable — among those entrepreneurs who experience post traumatic growth, they now view their learning disability as a desirable difficulty which provided them an advantage because they became better listeners and paid greater attention to detail. they don't think they are who they are in spite of adversity, they know they are who they are because of adversity. they embrace their trauma and hardships as key elements of who they've become, and know that without those experiences, they might not have developed the muscle and grit required to become successful.one of my colleagues had his life completely upended as a result of the chinese cultural revolution in 1966. at age 13, his parents were relocated to the countryside, the schools were closed and he was left alone in beijing to fend for himself until 16, when he got a job in a clothing factory. but instead of accepting his fate, he made a resolution that he would continue his formal education. eleven years later, when the political landscape changed, he heard about a highly selective university admissions test. he had three months to learn the entire curriculum of middle and high school. so, every day he came home from the factory, took a nap, studied until 4am, went back to work and repeated this cycle every day for three months. he did it, he succeeded. his commitment to his education was unwavering, and he never lost hope. today, he holds a master's degree, and his daughters each have degrees from cornell and harvard.scrappers are propelled by the belief that the only person you have full control over is yourself. when things don't turn out well, scrappers ask, "what can i do differently to create a better result?" scrappers have a sense of purpose that prevents them from giving up on themselves, kind of like if you've survived poverty, a crazy father and several muggings, you figure, "business challenges? — really? piece of cake. i got this." and that reminds me — humor. scrappers know that humor gets you through the tough times, and laughter helps you change your perspective.and finally, there are relationships. people who overcome adversity don't do it alone. somewhere along the way, they find people who bring out the best in them and who are invested in their success. having someone you can count on no matter what is essential to overcoming adversity. i was lucky. in my first job after college, i didn't have a car, so i carpooled across two bridges with a woman who was the president's assistant. she watched me work and encouraged me to focus on my future and not dwell on my past. along the way i've met many people who've provided me brutally honest feedback, advice and mentorship. these people don't mind that i once worked as a singing waitress to help pay for college. i'll leave you with one final, valuable insight. companies that are committed to diversity and inclusive practices tend to support scrappers and outperform their peers. according to diversityinc, a study of their top 50 companies for diversity outperformed the s&p 500 by 25 percent.so back to my original question. who are you going to bet on: silver spoon or scrapper? i say choose the underestimated contender, whose secret weapons are passion and purpose.hire the scrapper. <title = "An art made of trust, vulnerability and connection">
<tags = "['art', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'energy', 'fear', 'identity', 'performance art', 'self', 'society', 'vulnerability']">
<occupation = "Performance artist">
now... let's go back in time. it's 1974. there is the gallery somewhere in the world, and there is a young girl, age 23, standing in the middle of the space. in the front of her is a table. on the table there are 76 objects for pleasure and for pain. some of the objects are a glass of water, a coat, a shoe, a rose. but also the knife, the razor blade, the hammer and the pistol with one bullet. there are instructions which say, "i'm an object. you can use everything on the table on me. i'm taking all responsibility — even killing me. and the time is six hours."the beginning of this performance was easy. people would give me the glass of water to drink, they'd give me the rose. but very soon after, there was a man who took the scissors and cut my clothes, and then they took the thorns of the rose and stuck them in my stomach. somebody took the razor blade and cut my neck and drank the blood, and i still have the scar. the women would tell the men what to do. and the men didn't rape me because it was just a normal opening, and it was all public, and they were with their wives. they carried me around and put me on the table, and put the knife between my legs. and somebody took the pistol and bullet and put it against my temple. and another person took the pistol and they started a fight.and after six hours were finished, i... started walking towards the public. i was a mess. i was half-naked, i was full of blood and tears were running down my face. and everybody escaped, they just ran away. they could not confront myself, with myself as a normal human being. and then — what happened is i went to the hotel, it was at two in the morning. and i looked at myself in the mirror, and i had a piece of gray hair. alright — please take off your blindfolds.welcome to the performance world. first of all, let's explain what the performance is. so many artists, so many different explanations, but my explanation for performance is very simple. performance is a mental and physical construction that the performer makes in a specific time in a space in front of an audience and then energy dialogue happens. the audience and the performer make the piece together. and the difference between performance and theater is huge. in the theater, the knife is not a knife and the blood is just ketchup. in the performance, the blood is the material, and the razor blade or knife is the tool. it's all about being there in the real time, and you can't rehearse performance, because you can't do many of these types of things twice — ever. which is very important, the performance is — you know, all human beings are always afraid of very simple things. we're afraid of suffering, we're afraid of pain, we're afraid of mortality. so what i'm doing — i'm staging these kinds of fears in front of the audience. i'm using your energy, and with this energy i can go and push my body as far as i can. and then i liberate myself from these fears. and i'm your mirror. if i can do this for myself, you can do it for you.after belgrade, where i was born, i went to amsterdam. and you know, i've been doing performances since the last 40 years. and here i met ulay, and he was the person i actually fell in love with. and we made, for 12 years, performances together. you know the knife and the pistols and the bullets, i exchange into love and trust. so to do this kind work you have to trust the person completely because this arrow is pointing to my heart. so, heart beating and adrenaline is rushing and so on, is about trust, is about total trust to another human being.our relationship was 12 years, and we worked on so many subjects, both male and female energy. and as every relationship comes to an end, ours went too. we didn't make phone calls like normal human beings do and say, you know, "this is over." we walked the great wall of china to say goodbye. i started at the yellow sea, and he started from the gobi desert. we walked, each of us, three months, two and a half thousand kilometers. it was the mountains, it was difficult. it was climbing, it was ruins. it was, you know, going through the 12 chinese provinces, this was before china was open in '87. and we succeeded to meet in the middle to say goodbye. and then our relationship stopped.and now, it completely changed how i see the public. and one very important piece i made in those days was "balkan baroque." and this was the time of the balkan wars, and i wanted to create some very strong, charismatic image, something that could serve for any war at any time, because the balkan wars are now finished, but there's always some war, somewhere. so here i am washing two and a half thousand dead, big, bloody cow bones. you can't wash the blood, you never can wash shame off the wars. so i'm washing this six hours, six days, and wars are coming off these bones, and becoming possible — an unbearable smell. but then something stays in the memory.i want to show you the one who really changed my life, and this was the performance in moma, which i just recently made. this performance — when i said to the curator, "i'm just going to sit at the chair, and there will be an empty chair at the front, and anybody from the public can come and sit as long as they want." the curator said to me, "that's ridiculous, you know, this is new york, this chair will be empty, nobody has time to sit in front of you." but i sit for three months. and i sit everyday, eight hours — the opening of the museum — and 10 hours on friday when the museum is open 10 hours, and i never move. and i removed the table and i'm still sitting, and this changed everything. this performance, maybe 10 or 15 years ago — nothing would have happened. but the need of people to actually experience something different, the public was not anymore the group — relation was one to one. i was watching these people, they would come and sit in front of me, but they would have to wait for hours and hours and hours to get to this position, and finally, they sit.and what happened? they are observed by the other people, they're photographed, they're filmed by the camera, they're observed by me and they have nowhere to escape except in themselves. and that makes a difference. there was so much pain and loneliness, there's so much incredible things when you look in somebody else's eyes, because in the gaze with that total stranger, that you never even say one word — everything happened. and i understood when i stood up from that chair after three months, i am not the same anymore. and i understood that i have a very strong mission, that i have to communicate this experience to everybody.and this is how, for me, was born the idea to have an institute of immaterial performing arts. because thinking about immateriality, performance is time-based art. it's not like a painting. you have the painting on the wall, the next day it's there. performance, if you are missing it, you only have the memory, or the story of somebody else telling you, but you actually missed the whole thing. so you have to be there. and in my point, if you talk about immaterial art, music is the highest — absolutely highest art of all, because it's the most immaterial. and then after this is performance, and then everything else. that's my subjective way.this institute is going to happen in hudson, upstate new york, and we are trying to build with rem koolhaas, an idea. and it's very simple. if you want to get experience, you have to give me your time. you have to sign the contract before you enter the building, that you will spend there a full six hours, you have to give me your word of honor. it's something so old-fashioned, but if you don't respect your own word of honor and you leave before — that's not my problem. but it's six hours, the experience. and then after you finish, you get a certificate of accomplishment, so get home and frame it if you want. this is orientation hall. the public comes in, and the first thing you have to do is dress in lab coats. it's this importance of stepping from being just a viewer into experimenter. and then you go to the lockers and you put your watch, your iphone, your ipod, your computer and everything digital, electronic. and you are getting free time for yourself for the first time. because there is nothing wrong with technology, our approach to technology is wrong. we are losing the time we have for ourselves. this is an institute to actually give you back this time.so what you do here, first you start slow walking, you start slowing down. you're going back to simplicity. after slow walking, you're going to learn how to drink water — very simple, drinking water for maybe half an hour. after this, you're going to the magnet chamber, where you're going to create some magnet streams on your body. then after this, you go to crystal chamber. after crystal chamber, you go to eye-gazing chamber, after eye-gazing chamber, you go to a chamber where you are lying down. so it's the three basic positions of the human body, sitting, standing and lying. and slow walking. and there is a sound chamber. and then after you've seen all of this, and prepared yourself mentally and physically, then you are ready to see something with a long duration, like in immaterial art. it can be music, it can be opera, it can be a theater piece, it can be film, it can be video dance. you go to the long duration chairs because now you are comfortable. in the long duration chairs, you're transported to the big place where you're going to see the work. and if you fall asleep, which is very possible because it's been a long day, you're going to be transported to the parking lot. and you know, sleeping is very important. in sleeping, you're still receiving art. so in the parking lot you stay for a certain amount of time, and then after this you just, you know, go back, you see more of the things you like to see or go home with your certificate.so this institute right now is virtual. right now, i am just making my institute in brazil, then it's going to be in australia, then it's coming here, to canada and everywhere. and this is to experience a kind of simple method, how you go back to simplicity in your own life. counting rice will be another thing. you know, if you count rice you can make life, too. how to count rice for six hours? it's incredibly important. you know, you go through this whole range of being bored, being angry, being completely frustrated, not finishing the amount of rice you're counting. and then this unbelievable amount of peace you get when satisfying work is finished — or counting sand in the desert. or having the sound-isolated situation — that you have headphones, that you don't hear anything, and you're just there together without sound, with the people experiencing silence, just the simple silence.we are always doing things we like in our life. and this is why you're not changing. you do things in life — it's just nothing happens if you always do things the same way. but my method is to do things i'm afraid of, the things i fear, the things i don't know, to go to territory that nobody's ever been.and then also to include the failure. i think failure is important because if you go, if you experiment, you can fail. if you don't go into that area and you don't fail, you are actually repeating yourself over and over again. and i think that human beings right now need a change, and the only change to be made is a personal level change. you have to make the change on yourself. because the only way to change consciousness and to change the world around us, is to start with yourself. it's so easy to criticize how it's different, the things in the world and they're not right, and the governments are corrupted and there's hunger in the world and there's wars — the killing. but what we do on the personal level — what is our contribution to this whole thing?can you turn to your neighbor, the one you don't know, and look at them for two full minutes in their eyes, right now?(chatter)i'm asking two minutes of your time, that's so little. breathe slowly, don't try to blink, don't be self-conscious. be relaxed. and just look a complete stranger in your eyes, in his eyes.(silence) thank you for trusting me. chris anderson: thank you. thank you so much.<title = "How we're growing baby corals to rebuild reefs">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'animals', 'biology', 'climate change', 'environment', 'exoskeleton', 'microbiology', 'mission blue', 'nature', 'oceans', 'pollution', 'science', 'water']">
<occupation = "Coral reef biologist">
what was the most difficult job you ever did? was it working in the sun? was it working to provide food for a family or a community? was it working days and nights trying to protect lives and property? was it working alone or working on a project that wasn't guaranteed to succeed, but that might improve human health or save a life? was it working to build something, create something, make a work of art? was it work for which you were never sure you were fully understood or appreciated? the people in our communities who do these jobs deserve our attention, our love and our deepest support.but people aren't the only ones in our communities who do these difficult jobs. these jobs are also done by the plants, the animals and the ecosystems on our planet, including the ecosystems i study: the tropical coral reefs. coral reefs are farmers. they provide food, income and food security for hundreds of millions of people around the world. coral reefs are security guards. the structures that they build protect our shorelines from storm surge and waves, and the biological systems that they house filter the water and make it safer for us to work and play. coral reefs are chemists. the molecules that we're discovering on coral reefs are increasingly important in the search for new antibiotics and new cancer drugs. and coral reefs are artists. the structures that they build are some of the most beautiful things on planet earth. and this beauty is the foundation of the tourism industry in many countries with few or little other natural resources.so for all of these reasons, all of these ecosystem services, economists estimate the value of the world's coral reefs in the hundreds of billions of dollars per year. and yet despite all that hard work being done for us and all that wealth that we gain, we have done almost everything we possibly could to destroy that. we have taken the fish out of the oceans and we have added in fertilizer, sewage, diseases, oil, pollution, sediments. we have trampled the reefs physically with our boats, our fins, our bulldozers, and we have changed the chemistry of the entire sea, warmed the waters and made storms worse. and these would all be bad on their own, but these threats magnify each other and compound one another and make each other worse.i'll give you an example. where i live and work, in curaçao, a tropical storm went by a few years ago. and on the eastern end of the island, where the reefs are intact and thriving, you could barely tell a tropical storm had passed. but in town, where corals had died from overfishing, from pollution, the tropical storm picked up the dead corals and used them as bludgeons to kill the corals that were left. this is a coral that i studied during my phd — i got to know it quite well. and after this storm took off half of its tissue, it became infested with algae, the algae overgrew the tissue and that coral died. this magnification of threats, this compounding of factors is what jeremy jackson describes as the "slippery slope to slime." it's hardly even a metaphor because many of our reefs now are literally bacteria and algae and slime.now, this is the part of the talk where you may expect me to launch into my plea for us to all save the coral reefs. but i have a confession to make: that phrase drives me nuts. whether i see it in a tweet, in a news headline or the glossy pages of a conservation brochure, that phrase bothers me, because we as conservationists have been sounding the alarms about the death of coral reefs for decades. and yet, almost everyone i meet, no matter how educated, is not sure what a coral is or where they come from. how would we get someone to care about the world's coral reefs when it's an abstract thing they can barely understand? if they don't understand what a coral is or where it comes from, or how funny or interesting or beautiful it is, why would we expect them to care about saving them?so let's change that. what is a coral and where does it come from? corals are born in a number of different ways, but most often by mass spawning: all of the individuals of a single species on one night a year, releasing all the eggs they've made that year into the water column, packaged into bundles with sperm cells. and those bundles go to the surface of the ocean and break apart. and hopefully — hopefully — at the surface of the ocean, they meet the eggs and sperm from other corals. and that is why you need lots of corals on a coral reef — so that all of their eggs can meet their match at the surface. when they're fertilized, they do what any other animal egg does: divides in half again and again and again. taking these photos under the microscope every year is one of my favorite and most magical moments of the year. at the end of all this cell division, they turn into a swimming larva — a little tiny blob of fat the size of a poppy seed, but with all of the sensory systems that we have. they can sense color and light, textures, chemicals, ph. they can even feel pressure waves; they can hear sound. and they use those talents to search the bottom of the reef for a place to attach and live the rest of their lives.so imagine finding a place where you would live the rest of your life when you were just two days old. they attach in the place they find most suitable, they build a skeleton underneath themselves, they build a mouth and tentacles, and then they begin the difficult work of building the world's coral reefs. one coral polyp will divide itself again and again and again, leaving a limestone skeleton underneath itself and growing up toward the sun. given hundreds of years and many species, what you get is a massive limestone structure that can be seen from space in many cases, covered by a thin skin of these hardworking animals. now, there are only a few hundred species of corals on the planet, maybe 1,000. but these systems house millions and millions of other species, and that diversity is what stabilizes the systems, and it's where we're finding our new medicines. it's how we find new sources of food. i'm lucky enough to work on the island of curaçao, where we still have reefs that look like this. but, indeed, much of the caribbean and much of our world is much more like this.scientists have studied in increasing detail the loss of the world's coral reefs, and they have documented with increasing certainty the causes. but in my research, i'm not interested in looking backward. my colleagues and i in curaçao are interested in looking forward at what might be. and we have the tiniest reason to be optimistic. because even in some of these reefs that we probably could have written off long ago, we sometimes see baby corals arrive and survive anyway. and we're starting to think that baby corals may have the ability to adjust to some of the conditions that the adults couldn't. they may be able to adjust ever so slightly more readily to this human planet. so in the research i do with my colleagues in curaçao, we try to figure out what a baby coral needs in that critical early stage, what it's looking for and how we can try to help it through that process. i'm going to show you three examples of the work we've done to try to answer those questions.a few years ago we took a 3d printer and we made coral choice surveys — different colors and different textures, and we simply asked the coral where they preferred to settle. and we found that corals, even without the biology involved, still prefer white and pink, the colors of a healthy reef. and they prefer crevices and grooves and holes, where they will be safe from being trampled or eaten by a predator. so we can use this knowledge, we can go back and say we need to restore those factors — that pink, that white, those crevices, those hard surfaces — in our conservation projects. we can also use that knowledge if we're going to put something underwater, like a sea wall or a pier. we can choose to use the materials and colors and textures that might bias the system back toward those corals. now in addition to the surfaces, we also study the chemical and microbial signals that attract corals to reefs. starting about six years ago, i began culturing bacteria from surfaces where corals had settled. and i tried those one by one by one, looking for the bacteria that would convince corals to settle and attach. and we now have many bacterial strains in our freezer that will reliably cause corals to go through that settlement and attachment process. so as we speak, my colleagues in curaçao are testing those bacteria to see if they'll help us raise more coral settlers in the lab, and to see if those coral settlers will survive better when we put them back underwater.now in addition to these tools, we also try to uncover the mysteries of species that are under-studied. this is one of my favorite corals, and always has been: dendrogyra cylindrus, the pillar coral. i love it because it makes this ridiculous shape, because its tentacles are fat and look fuzzy and because it's rare. finding one of these on a reef is a treat. in fact, it's so rare, that last year it was listed as a threatened species on the endangered species list. and this was in part because in over 30 years of research surveys, scientists had never found a baby pillar coral. we weren't even sure if they could still reproduce, or if they were still reproducing.so four years ago, we started following these at night and watching to see if we could figure out when they spawn in curaçao. we got some good tips from our colleagues in florida, who had seen one in 2007, one in 2008, and eventually we figured out when they spawn in curaçao and we caught it. here's a female on the left with some eggs in her tissue, about to release them into the seawater. and here's a male on the right, releasing sperm. we collected this, we got it back to the lab, we got it to fertilize and we got baby pillar corals swimming in our lab. thanks to the work of our scientific aunts and uncles, and thanks to the 10 years of practice we've had in curaçao at raising other coral species, we got some of those larvae to go through the rest of the process and settle and attach, and turn into metamorphosed corals. so this is the first pillar coral baby that anyone ever saw. and i have to say — if you think baby pandas are cute, this is cuter. so we're starting to figure out the secrets to this process, the secrets of coral reproduction and how we might help them. and this is true all around the world; scientists are figuring out new ways to handle their embryos, to get them to settle, maybe even figuring out the methods to preserve them at low temperatures, so that we can preserve their genetic diversity and work with them more often. but this is still so low-tech. we are limited by the space on our bench, the number of hands in the lab and the number of coffees we can drink in any given hour.now, compare that to our other crises and our other areas of concern as a society. we have advanced medical technology, we have defense technology, we have scientific technology, we even have advanced technology for art. but our technology for conservation is behind. think back to the most difficult job you ever did. many of you would say it was being a parent. my mother described being a parent as something that makes your life far more amazing and far more difficult than you could've ever possibly imagined. i've been trying to help corals become parents for over 10 years now. and watching the wonder of life has certainly filled me with amazement to the core of my soul. but i've also seen how difficult it is for them to become parents. the pillar corals spawned again two weeks ago, and we collected their eggs and brought them back to the lab. and here you see one embryo dividing, alongside 14 eggs that didn't fertilize and will blow up. they'll be infected with bacteria, they will explode and those bacteria will threaten the life of this one embryo that has a chance. we don't know if it was our handling methods that went wrong and we don't know if it was just this coral on this reef, always suffering from low fertility. whatever the cause, we have much more work to do before we can use baby corals to grow or fix or, yes, maybe save coral reefs.so never mind that they're worth hundreds of billions of dollars. coral reefs are hardworking animals and plants and microbes and fungi. they're providing us with art and food and medicine. and we almost took out an entire generation of corals. but a few made it anyway, despite our best efforts, and now it's time for us to thank them for the work they did and give them every chance they have to raise the coral reefs of the future, their coral babies.thank you so much. <title = "The US needs paid family leave -- for the sake of its future">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'big problems', 'economics', 'family', 'future', 'government', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'parenting', 'social change', 'society', 'women', 'women in business', 'work']">
<occupation = "Strategy consultant, social entrepreneur and author">
what does a working mother look like? if you ask the internet, this is what you'll be told. never mind that this is what you'll actually produce if you attempt to work at a computer with a baby on your lap. but no, this isn't a working mother. you'll notice a theme in these photos. we'll look at a lot of them. that theme is amazing natural lighting, which, as we all know, is the hallmark of every american workplace.there are thousands of images like these. just put the term "working mother" into any google image search engine, stock photo site. they're all over the internet, they're topping blog posts and news pieces, and i've become kind of obsessed with them and the lie that they tell us and the comfort that they give us, that when it comes to new working motherhood in america, everything's fine.but it's not fine. as a country, we are sending millions of women back to work every year, incredibly and kind of horrifically soon after they give birth. that's a moral problem but today i'm also going to tell you why it's an economic problem.i got so annoyed and obsessed with the unreality of these images, which look nothing like my life, that i recently decided to shoot and star in a parody series of stock photos that i hoped the world would start to use just showing the really awkward reality of going back to work when your baby's food source is attached to your body. i'm just going to show you two of them. nothing says "give that girl a promotion" like leaking breast milk through your dress during a presentation. you'll notice that there's no baby in this photo, because that's not how this works, not for most working mothers.did you know, and this will ruin your day, that every time a toilet is flushed, its contents are aerosolized and they'll stay airborne for hours? and yet, for many new working mothers, this is the only place during the day that they can find to make food for their newborn babies.i put these things, a whole dozen of them, into the world. i wanted to make a point. i didn't know what i was also doing was opening a door, because now, total strangers from all walks of life write to me all the time just to tell me what it's like for them to go back to work within days or weeks of having a baby. i'm going to share 10 of their stories with you today. they are totally real, some of them are very raw, and not one of them looks anything like this.here's the first. "i was an active duty service member at a federal prison. i returned to work after the maximum allowed eight weeks for my c-section. a male coworker was annoyed that i had been out on 'vacation,' so he intentionally opened the door on me while i was pumping breast milk and stood in the doorway with inmates in the hallway."most of the stories that these women, total strangers, send to me now, are not actually even about breastfeeding.a woman wrote to me to say, "i gave birth to twins and went back to work after seven unpaid weeks. emotionally, i was a wreck. physically, i had a severe hemorrhage during labor, and major tearing, so i could barely get up, sit or walk. my employer told me i wasn't allowed to use my available vacation days because it was budget season."i've come to believe that we can't look situations like these in the eye because then we'd be horrified, and if we get horrified then we have to do something about it. so we choose to look at, and believe, this image. i don't really know what's going on in this picture, because i find it weird and slightly creepy. like, what is she doing? but i know what it tells us. it tells us that everything's fine. this working mother, all working mothers and all of their babies, are fine. there's nothing to see here. and anyway, women have made a choice, so none of it's even our problem.i want to break this choice thing down into two parts. the first choice says that women have chosen to work. so, that's not true. today in america, women make up 47 percent of the workforce, and in 40 percent of american households a woman is the sole or primary breadwinner. our paid work is a part, a huge part, of the engine of this economy, and it is essential for the engines of our families. on a national level, our paid work is not optional.choice number two says that women are choosing to have babies, so women alone should bear the consequences of those choices. you know, that's one of those things that when you hear it in passing, can sound correct. i didn't make you have a baby. i certainly wasn't there when that happened. but that stance ignores a fundamental truth, which is that our procreation on a national scale is not optional. the babies that women, many of them working women, are having today, will one day fill our workforce, protect our shores, make up our tax base. our procreation on a national scale is not optional. these aren't choices. we need women to work. we need working women to have babies. so we should make doing those things at the same time at least palatable, right?ok, this is pop quiz time: what percentage of working women in america do you think have no access to paid maternity leave? 88 percent. 88 percent of working mothers will not get one minute of paid leave after they have a baby.so now you're thinking about unpaid leave. it exists in america. it's called fmla. it does not work. because of the way it's structured, all kinds of exceptions, half of new mothers are ineligible for it.here's what that looks like. "we adopted our son. when i got the call, the day he was born, i had to take off work. i had not been there long enough to qualify for fmla, so i wasn't eligible for unpaid leave. when i took time off to meet my newborn son, i lost my job."these corporate stock photos hide another reality, another layer. of those who do have access to just that unpaid leave, most women can't afford to take much of it at all. a nurse told me, "i didn't qualify for short-term disability because my pregnancy was considered a preexisting condition. we used up all of our tax returns and half of our savings during my six unpaid weeks. we just couldn't manage any longer. physically it was hard, but emotionally it was worse. i struggled for months being away from my son."so this decision to go back to work so early, it's a rational economic decision driven by family finances, but it's often physically horrific because putting a human into the world is messy.a waitress told me, "with my first baby, i was back at work five weeks postpartum. with my second, i had to have major surgery after giving birth, so i waited until six weeks to go back. i had third degree tears."23 percent of new working mothers in america will be back on the job within two weeks of giving birth."i worked as a bartender and cook, average of 75 hours a week while pregnant. i had to return to work before my baby was a month old, working 60 hours a week. one of my coworkers was only able to afford 10 days off with her baby."of course, this isn't just a scenario with economic and physical implications. childbirth is, and always will be, an enormous psychological event.a teacher told me, "i returned to work eight weeks after my son was born. i already suffer from anxiety, but the panic attacks i had prior to returning to work were unbearable."statistically speaking, the shorter a woman's leave after having a baby, the more likely she will be to suffer from postpartum mood disorders like depression and anxiety, and among many potential consequences of those disorders, suicide is the second most common cause of death in a woman's first year postpartum.heads up that this next story — i've never met this woman, but i find it hard to get through."i feel tremendous grief and rage that i lost an essential, irreplaceable and formative time with my son. labor and delivery left me feeling absolutely broken. for months, all i remember is the screaming: colic, they said. on the inside, i was drowning. every morning, i asked myself how much longer i could do it. i was allowed to bring my baby to work. i closed my office door while i rocked and shushed and begged him to stop screaming so i wouldn't get in trouble. i hid behind that office door every damn day and cried while he screamed. i cried in the bathroom while i washed out the pump equipment. every day, i cried all the way to work and all the way home again. i promised my boss that the work i didn't get done during the day, i'd make up at night from home. i thought, there's just something wrong with me that i can't swing this."so those are the mothers. what of the babies? as a country, do we care about the millions of babies born every year to working mothers? i say we don't, not until they're of working and tax-paying and military-serving age. we tell them we'll see them in 18 years, and getting there is kind of on them. one of the reasons i know this is that babies whose mothers have 12 or more weeks at home with them are more likely to get their vaccinations and their well checks in their first year, so those babies are more protected from deadly and disabling diseases. but those things are hidden behind images like this.america has a message for new mothers who work and for their babies. whatever time you get together, you should be grateful for it, and you're an inconvenience to the economy and to your employers. that narrative of gratitude runs through a lot of the stories i hear.a woman told me, "i went back at eight weeks after my c-section because my husband was out of work. without me, my daughter had failure to thrive. she wouldn't take a bottle. she started losing weight. thankfully, my manager was very understanding. he let my mom bring my baby, who was on oxygen and a monitor, four times a shift so i could nurse her."there's a little club of countries in the world that offer no national paid leave to new mothers. care to guess who they are? the first eight make up eight million in total population. they are papua new guinea, suriname and the tiny island nations of micronesia, marshall islands, nauru, niue, palau and tonga. number nine is the united states of america, with 320 million people. oh, that's it. that's the end of the list. every other economy on the planet has found a way to make some level of national paid leave work for the people doing the work of the future of those countries, but we say, "we couldn't possibly do that." we say that the market will solve this problem, and then we cheer when corporations offer even more paid leave to the women who are already the highest-educated and highest-paid among us. remember that 88 percent? those middle- and low-income women are not going to participate in that. we know that there are staggering economic, financial, physical and emotional costs to this approach. we have decided — decided, not an accident, to pass these costs directly on to working mothers and their babies. we know the price tag is higher for low-income women, therefore disproportionately for women of color. we pass them on anyway.all of this is to america's shame. but it's also to america's risk. because what would happen if all of these individual so-called choices to have babies started to turn into individual choices not to have babies.one woman told me, "new motherhood is hard. it shouldn't be traumatic. when we talk about expanding our family now, we focus on how much time i would have to care for myself and a new baby. if we were to have to do it again the same way as with our first, we might stick with one kid."the birthrate needed in america to keep the population stable is 2.1 live births per woman. in america today, we are at 1.86. we need women to have babies, and we are actively disincentivizing working women from doing that. what would happen to work force, to innovation, to gdp, if one by one, the working mothers of this country were to decide that they can't bear to do this thing more than once?i'm here today with only one idea worth spreading, and you've guessed what it is. it is long since time for the most powerful country on earth to offer national paid leave to the people doing the work of the future of this country and to the babies who represent that future. childbirth is a public good. this leave should be state-subsidized. it should have no exceptions for small businesses, length of employment or entrepreneurs. it should be able to be shared between partners. i've talked today a lot about mothers, but co-parents matter on so many levels.not one more woman should have to go back to work while she is hobbling and bleeding. not one more family should have to drain their savings account to buy a few days of rest and recovery and bonding. not one more fragile infant should have to go directly from the incubator to day care because his parents have used up all of their meager time sitting in the nicu. not one more working family should be told that the collision of their work, their needed work and their needed parenthood, is their problem alone.the catch is that when this is happening to a new family, it is consuming, and a family with a new baby is more financially vulnerable than they've ever been before, so that new mother cannot afford to speak up on her own behalf. but all of us have voices. i am done, done having babies, and you might be pre-baby, you might be post-baby, you might be no baby. it should not matter. we have to stop framing this as a mother's issue, or even a women's issue. this is an american issue.we need to stop buying the lie that these images tell us. we need to stop being comforted by them. we need to question why we're told that this can't work when we see it work everywhere all over the world. we need to recognize that this american reality is to our dishonor and to our peril. because this is not, this is not, and this is not what a working mother looks like. <title = "How new technology helps blind people explore the world">
<tags = "['AI', 'Blindness', 'communication', 'data', 'demo', 'future', 'innovation', 'interface design', 'invention', 'open-source', 'sight', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Visionary inventor">
you might think there are many things that i can't do because i cannot see. that's largely true. actually, i just needed to have a bit of help to come up to the stage.but there is also a lot that i can do. this is me rock climbing for the first time. actually, i love sports and i can play many sports, like swimming, skiing, skating, scuba diving, running and so on. but there is one limitation: somebody needs to help me. i want to be independent.i lost my sight at the age of 14 in a swimming pool accident. i was an active, independent teenager, and suddenly i became blind. the hardest thing for me was losing my independence. things that until then seemed simple became almost impossible to do alone. for example, one of my challenges was textbooks. back then, there were no personal computers, no internet, no smartphones. so i had to ask one of my two brothers to read me textbooks, and i had to create my own books in braille. can you imagine? of course, my brothers were not happy about it, and later, i noticed they were not there whenever i needed them.  i think they tried to stay away from me. i don't blame them. i really wanted to be freed from relying on someone. that became my strong desire to ignite innovation.jump ahead to the mid-1980s. i got to know cutting-edge technologies and i thought to myself, how come there is no computer technology to create books in braille? these amazing technologies must be able to also help people with limitations like myself. that's the moment my innovation journey began.i started developing digital book technologies, such as a digital braille editor, digital braille dictionary and a digital braille library network. today, every student who is visually impaired can read textbooks, by using personal computers and mobile devices, in braille or in voice. this may not surprise you, since everyone now has digital books in their tablets in 2015. but braille went digital many years before digital books, already in the late 1980s, almost 30 years ago. strong and specific needs of the blind people made this opportunity to create digital books way back then. and this is actually not the first time this happened, because history shows us accessibility ignites innovation. the telephone was invented while developing a communication tool for hearing impaired people. some keyboards were also invented to help people with disabilities.now i'm going to give you another example from my own life. in the '90s, people around me started talking about the internet and web browsing. i remember the first time i went on the web. i was astonished. i could access newspapers at any time and every day. i could even search for any information by myself. i desperately wanted to help the blind people have access to the internet, and i found ways to render the web into synthesized voice, which dramatically simplified the user interface.this led me to develop the home page reader in 1997, first in japanese and later, translated into 11 languages. when i developed the home page reader, i got many comments from users. one that i strongly remember said, "for me, the internet is a small window to the world."it was a revolutionary moment for the blind. the cyber world became accessible, and this technology that we created for the blind has many uses, way beyond what i imagined. it can help drivers listen to their emails or it can help you listen to a recipe while cooking.today, i am more independent, but it is still not enough. for example, when i approached the stage just now, i needed assistance. my goal is to come up here independently. and not just here. my goal is to be able to travel and do things that are simple to you.ok, now let me show you the latest technologies. this is a smartphone app that we are working on.(video) electronic voice: 51 feet to the door, and keep straight.ev: take the two doors to go out. the door is on your right.ev: nick is approaching. looks so happy. chieko asakawa: hi, nick! ca: where are you going? you look so happy.nick: oh — well, my paper just got accepted. ca: that's great! congratulations.nick: thanks. wait — how'd you know it was me, and that i look happy? (chieko and nick laugh)man: hi.  ca: oh ... hi.ev: he is not talking to you, but on his phone.ev: potato chips.ev: dark chocolate with almonds.ev: you gained 5 pounds since yesterday; take apple instead of chocolate. ev: approaching.ev: you arrived.ca: now ... thank you.so now the app navigates me by analyzing beacon signals and smartphone sensors and permits me to move around indoor and outdoor environments all by myself. but the computer vision part that showed who is approaching, in which mood — we are still working on that part. and recognizing facial expressions is very important for me to be social.so now the fusions of technologies are ready to help me see the real world. we call this cognitive assistance. it understands our surrounding world and whispers to me in voice or sends a vibration to my fingers. cognitive assistance will augment missing or weakened abilities — in other words, our five senses. this technology is only in an early stage, but eventually, i'll be able to find a classroom on campus, enjoy window shopping or find a nice restaurant while walking along a street. it will be amazing if i can find you on the street before you notice me. it will become my best buddy, and yours.so, this really is a great challenge. it is a challenge that needs collaboration, which is why we are creating an open community to accelerate research activities. just this morning, we announced the open-source fundamental technologies you just saw in the video.the frontier is the real world. the blind community is exploring this technical frontier and the pathfinder. i hope to work with you to explore the new era, and the next time that i'm on this stage, through technology and innovation, i will be able to walk up here all by myself.thank you so much. <title = "The exhilarating peace of freediving">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'adventure', 'consciousness', 'exploration', 'extreme sports', 'meditation', 'mind', 'mindfulness', 'oceans', 'peace']">
<occupation = "World champion freediver">
(video) announcer: 10 seconds. five, four, three, two, one. official top. plus one, two, three, four, five six, seven, eight, nine, ten. guillaume néry, france. constant weight, 123 meters, three minutes and 25 seconds. national record attempt. 70 meters. [123 meters] (video) judge: white card. guillaume néry! national record!guillaume néry: thank you. thank you very much, thanks for the warm welcome. that dive you just watched is a journey — a journey between two breaths. a journey that takes place between two breaths — the last one before diving into the water, and the first one, coming back to the surface. that dive is a journey to the very limits of human possibility, a journey into the unknown. but it's also, and above all, an inner journey, where a number of things happen, physiologically as well as mentally. and that's why i'm here today, to share my journey with you and to take you along with me.so, we start with the last breath. (breathing in) (breathing out) as you noticed, that last breath in is slow, deep and intense. it ends with a special technique called the carp, which allows me to store one to two extra liters of air in my lungs by compressing it. when i leave the surface, i have about 10 liters of air in my lungs. as soon as i leave the surface the first mechanism kicks in: the diving reflex. the first thing the diving reflex does is make your heart rate drop. my heart beat will drop from about 60-70 per minute to about 30-40 beats per minute in a matter of seconds; almost immediately.next, the diving reflex causes peripheral vasoconstriction, which means that the blood flow will leave the body's extremities to feed the most important organs: the lungs, the heart and the brain. this mechanism is innate. i cannot control it. if you go underwater, even if you've never done it before, you'll experience the exact same effects. all human beings share this characteristic. and what's extraordinary is that we share this instinct with marine mammals — all marine mammals: dolphins, whales, sea lions, etc. when they dive deep into the ocean, these mechanisms become activated, but to a greater extent. and, of course, it works much better for them. it's absolutely fascinating.right as i leave the surface, nature gives me a push in the right direction, allowing me to descend with confidence.so as i dive deeper into the blue, the pressure slowly starts to squeeze my lungs. and since it's the amount of air in my lungs that makes me float, the farther down i go, the more pressure there is on my lungs, the less air they contain and the easier it is for my body to fall. and at one point, around 35 or 40 meters down, i don't even need to swim. my body is dense and heavy enough to fall into the depths by itself, and i enter what's called the free fall phase. the free fall phase is the best part of the dive. it's the reason i still dive. because it feels like you're being pulled down and you don't need to do anything. i can go from 35 meters to 123 meters without making a single movement. i let myself be pulled by the depths, and it feels like i'm flying underwater. it's truly an amazing feeling — an extraordinary feeling of freedom.and so i slowly continue sliding to the bottom. 40 meters down, 50 meters down, and between 50 and 60 meters, a second physiological response kicks in. my lungs reach residual volume, below which they're not supposed to be compressed, in theory. and this second response is called blood shift, or "pulmonary erection" in french. i prefer "blood shift." so blood shift — how does it work? the capillaries in the lungs become engorged with blood — which is caused by the suction — so the lungs can harden and protect the whole chest cavity from being crushed. it prevents the two walls of the lungs from collapsing, from sticking together and caving in. thanks to this phenomenon, which we also share with marine mammals, i'm able to continue with my dive.60, 70 meters down, i keep falling, faster and faster, because the pressure is crushing my body more and more. below 80 meters, the pressure becomes a lot stronger, and i start to feel it physically. i really start to feel the suffocation. you can see what it looks like — not pretty at all. the diaphragm is completely collapsed, the rib cage is squeezed in, and mentally, there is something going on as well.you may be thinking, "this doesn't look enjoyable. how do you do it?" if i relied on my earthly reflexes — what do we do above water when there's a problem? we resist, we go against it. we fight. underwater, that doesn't work. if you try that underwater, you might tear your lungs, spit up blood, develop an edema and you'll have to stop diving for a good amount of time. so what you need to do, mentally, is to tell yourself that nature and the elements are stronger than you.and so i let the water crush me. i accept the pressure and go with it. at this point, my body receives this information, and my lungs start relaxing. i relinquish all control, and relax completely. the pressure starts crushing me, and it doesn't feel bad at all. i even feel like i'm in a cocoon, protected.and the dive continues. 80, 85 meters down, 90, 100. 100 meters — the magic number. in every sport, it's a magic number. for swimmers and athletes and also for us, free divers, it's a number everyone dreams of. everyone wishes one day to be able to get to 100 meters. and it's a symbolic number for us, because in the 1970s, doctors and physiologists did their math, and predicted that the human body would not be able to go below 100 meters. below that, they said, the human body would implode. and then the frenchman, jacques mayol — you all know him as the hero in "the big blue" — came along and dived down to 100 meters. he even reached 105 meters. at that time, he was doing "no limits." he'd use weights to descend faster and come back up with a balloon, just like in the movie. today, we go down 200 meters in no limit free diving. i can do 123 meters by simply using muscle strength. and in a way, it's all thanks to him, because he challenged known facts, and with a sweep of his hand, got rid of the theoretical beliefs and all the mental limits that we like to impose on ourselves. he showed us that the human body has an infinite ability to adapt.so i carry on with my dive. 105, 110, 115. the bottom is getting closer. 120, 123 meters. i'm at the bottom.and now, i'd like to ask you to join me and put yourself in my place. close your eyes. imagine you get to 123 meters. the surface is far, far away. you're alone. there's hardly any light. it's cold — freezing cold. the pressure is crushing you completely — 13 times stronger than on the surface. and i know what you're thinking: "this is horrible. what the hell am i doing here? he's insane." but no. that's not what i think when i'm down there. when i'm at the bottom, i feel good. i get this extraordinary feeling of well-being. maybe it's because i've completely released all tensions and let myself go. i feel great, without the need to breathe.although, you'd agree, i should be worried. i feel like a tiny dot, a little drop of water, floating in the middle of the ocean. and each time, i picture the same image. [the pale blue dot] it's that small dot the arrow is pointing to. do you know what it is? it's planet earth. planet earth, photographed by the voyager probe, from 4 billion kilometers away. and it shows that our home is that small dot over there, floating in the middle of nothing.that's how i feel when i'm at the bottom, at 123 meters. i feel like a small dot, a speck of dust, stardust, floating in the middle of the cosmos, in the middle of nothing, in the immensity of space. it's a fascinating sensation, because when i look up, down, left, right, in front, behind, i see the same thing: the infinite deep blue. nowhere else on earth you can experience this — looking all around you, and seeing the same thing. it's extraordinary. and at that moment, i still get that feeling each time, building up inside of me — the feeling of humility.looking at this picture, i feel very humble — just like when i'm all the way down at the bottom — because i'm nothing, i'm a little speck of nothingness lost in all of time and space. and it still is absolutely fascinating. i decide to go back to the surface, because this is not where i belong. i belong up there, on the surface.so i start heading back up. i get something of a shock at the very moment when i decide to go up. first, because it takes a huge effort to tear yourself away from the bottom. it pulled you down on the way in, and will do the same on the way up. you have to swim twice as hard. then, i'm hit with another phenomenon known as narcosis. i don't know if you've heard of that. it's called nitrogen narcosis. it's something that happens to scuba divers, but it can happen to free divers. it's caused by nitrogen dissolving in the blood, which causes confusion between the conscious and unconscious mind. a flurry of thoughts goes spinning through your head. you can't control them, and you shouldn't try to — you have to let it happen. the more you try to control it, the harder it is to manage. then, a third thing happens: the desire to breathe. i'm not a fish, i'm a human being, and the desire to breathe reminds me of that fact. around 60, 70 meters, you start to feel the need to breathe. and with everything else that's going on, you can very easily lose your ground and start to panic. when that happens, you think, "where's the surface? i want to go up. i want to breathe now." you should not do that. never look up to the surface — not with your eyes, or your mind. you should never picture yourself up there. you have to stay in the present. i look at the rope right in front of me, leading me back to the surface. and i focus on that, on the present moment. because if i think about the surface, i panic. and if i panic, it's over. time goes faster this way.and at 30 meters: deliverance. i'm not alone any more. the safety divers, my guardian angels, join me. they leave the surface, we meet at 30 meters, and they escort me for the final few meters, where potential problems could arise. every time i see them, i think to myself, "it's thanks to you." it's thanks to them, my team, that i'm here. it brings back the sense of humility. without my team, without all the people around me, the adventure into the deep would be impossible. a journey into the deep is above all a group effort.so i'm happy to finish my journey with them, because i wouldn't be here if it weren't for them. 20 meters, 10 meters, my lungs slowly return to their normal volume. buoyancy pushes me up to the surface. five meters below the surface, i start to breathe out, so that as soon as i get to the surface all i do is breathe in. and so i arrive at the surface. (breathing in) air floods into my lungs. it's like being born again, a relief. it feels good. though the journey was extraordinary, i do need to feel those small oxygen molecules fueling my body. it's an extraordinary sensation, but at the same time it's traumatizing. it's a shock to the system, as you can you imagine. i go from complete darkness to the light of day, from the near-silence of the depths to the commotion up top. in terms of touch, i go from the soft, velvety feeling of the water, to air rubbing across my face. in terms of smell, there is air rushing into my lungs.and in return, my lungs open up. they were completely squashed just 90 seconds ago, and now, they've opened up again. so all of this affects quite a lot of things. i need a few seconds to come back, and to feel "all there" again. but that needs to happen quickly, because the judges are there to verify my performance; i need to show them i'm in perfect physical condition. you saw in the video, i was doing a so-called exit protocol. once at the surface, i have 15 seconds to take off my nose clip, give this signal and say (english) "i am ok." plus, you need to be bilingual. on top of everything — that's not very nice. once the protocol is completed, the judges show me a white card, and that's when the joy starts. i can finally celebrate what has just happened.so, the journey i've just described to you is a more extreme version of free diving. luckily, it's far from just that. for the past few years, i've been trying to show another side of free diving, because the media mainly talks about competitions and records. but free diving is more than just that. it's about being at ease in the water. it's extremely beautiful, very poetic and artistic.so my wife and i decided to film it and try to show another side of it, mostly to make people want to go into the water. let me show you some images to finish my story. it's a mix of beautiful underwater photos.(music)i'd like you to know that if one day you try to stop breathing, you'll realize that when you stop breathing, you stop thinking, too. it calms your mind.today, in the 21st century, we're under so much pressure. our minds are overworked, we think at a million miles an hour, we're always stressed. being able to free dive lets you, just for a moment, relax your mind. holding your breath underwater means giving yourself the chance to experience weightlessness. it means being underwater, floating, with your body completely relaxed, letting go of all your tensions. this is our plight in the 21st century: our backs hurt, our necks hurt, everything hurts, because we're stressed and tense all the time. but when you're in the water, you let yourself float, as if you were in space. you let yourself go completely. it's an extraordinary feeling. you can finally get in touch with your body, mind and spirit. everything feels better, all at once.learning how to free dive is also about learning to breathe correctly. we breathe with our first breath at birth, up until our last one. breathing gives rhythm to our lives. learning how to breathe better is learning how to live better. holding your breath in the sea, not necessarily at 100 meters, but maybe at two or three, putting on your goggles, a pair of flippers, means you can go see another world, another universe, completely magical. you can see little fish, seaweed, the flora and fauna, you can watch it all discreetly, sliding underwater, looking around, and coming back to the surface, leaving no trace. it's an amazing feeling to become one with nature like that.and if i may say one more thing, holding your breath, being in the water, finding this underwater world — it's all about connecting with yourself. you heard me talk a lot about the body's memory that dates back millions of years, to our marine origins. the day you get back into the water, when you hold your breath for a few seconds, you will reconnect with those origins. and i guarantee it's absolute magic. i encourage you to try it out.thank you. <title = "The untapped genius that could change science for the better">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'astronomy', 'future', 'goal-setting', 'identity', 'inequality', 'physics', 'potential', 'race', 'science', 'society', 'space', 'universe', 'women']">
<occupation = "Astrophysicist">
great things happen at intersections. in fact, i would argue that some of the most interesting things of the human experience occur at the intersections, in the liminal space, where by liminal i mean the space in-between. there's freedom in that in-between, freedom to create from the indefiniteness of not-quite-here, not-quite-there, a new self-definition. some of the great intersections of the world come to mind, like the arc de triomphe in paris, or times square in new york city, both bustling with the excitement of a seemingly endless stream of people. other intersections, like the edmund pettus bridge in selma, alabama, or canfield drive and copper creek court in ferguson, missouri, also come to mind because of the tremendous energy at the intersection of human beings, ideologies and the ongoing struggle for justice.beyond the physical landscape of our planet, some of the most famous celestial images are of intersections. stars are born at the messy intersection of gas and dust, instigated by gravity's irrevocable pull. stars die by this same intersection, this time flung outward in a violent collision of smaller atoms, intersecting and efficiently fusing into altogether new and heavier things. we can all think of intersections that have special meaning to us. to be intersectional, then, is to occupy a position at an intersection.i've lived the entirety of my life in the in-between, in the liminal space between dreams and reality, race and gender, poverty and plenty, science and society. i am both black and a woman. like the birth of stars in the heavenlies, this robust combination of knowing results in a shining example of the explosive fusion of identities.i am also an astrophysicist. i study blazars, supermassive, hyperactive black holes that sit at the centers of massive galaxies and shoot out jets nearby those black holes at speeds approaching the speed of light in a process we are still trying to completely understand.i have dreamed of becoming an astrophysicist since i was 12 years old. i had no idea that at that time, according to dr. jamie alexander's archive of african-american women in physics, only 18 black women in the united states had ever earned a phd in a physics-related discipline, and that the first black woman to graduate with a phd in an astronomy-related field did so just one year before my birth.as i journeyed along my path, i encountered the best and worst of life at an intersection: the tremendous opportunity to self-define, the collision of expectation and experience, the exhilaration of victorious breakthroughs and, sometimes, the explosive pain of regeneration.i began my college experience just after my family had fallen apart. our financial situation disintegrated just after my father's departure from our lives. this thrust my mother, my sister and i out of the relative comfort of middle-class life and into the almost constant struggle to make ends meet. thus, i was one of roughly 60 percent of women of color who find finances to be a major barrier to their educational goals. thankfully, norfolk state university provided me with full funding, and i was able to achieve my bachelor's in physics.after graduation, and despite knowing that i wanted a phd in astrophysics, i fell through the cracks. it was a poster that saved my dream, and some really incredible people and programs. the american physical society had this beautiful poster encouraging students of color to become physicists. it was striking to me because it featured a young black girl, probably around 12 years old, looking studiously at some physics equations. i remember thinking i was looking directly back at the little girl who first dared to dream this dream. i immediately wrote to the society and requested my personal copy of the poster, which to this day still hangs in my office. i described to them in the email my educational path, and my desire to find myself again in pursuit of the phd. they directed me to the fisk-vanderbilt university bridge program, itself an intersection of the master's and phd degrees at two institutions. after two years out of school, they accepted me into the program, and i found myself again on the path to the phd.after receiving my master's at fisk, i went on to yale to complete my phd. once i was physically occupying the space that would ultimately give way to my childhood aspirations, i anticipated a smooth glide to the phd. it became immediately apparent that not everyone was thrilled to have that degree of liminality in their space. i was ostracized by many of my classmates, one of whom went so far as to invite me to "do what i really came here to do" as he pushed all the dirty dishes from our meal in front of me to clean up. i wish that were an isolated occurrence, but for many women of color in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, or stem, this is something they have long endured. one hundred percent of the 60 women of color interviewed in a recent study by joan c. williams at uc hastings reported facing racialized gender bias, including being mistaken for the janitorial staff. this mistaken identity was not reported by any of the white women interviewed for this study, which comprised 557 women in total. while there is nothing inherently wrong with a janitorial position, and in fact my forefathers and foremothers were able to attend college because many of their parents worked these jobs, it was a clear attempt to put me in my place.while there was certainly the acute pain of the encounter, the real issue is that my appearance can tell anyone anything about my ability. beyond that, though, it underscores that the women of color in stem do not experience the same set of barriers that just women or just people of color face. that's why today i want to highlight women of color in stem, who are inexorably, unapologetically living as the inseparable sum of identities.stem itself is an intersectional term, such that its true richness cannot be appreciated without considering the liminal space between disciplines. science, the pursuit of understanding the physical world by way of chemistry, physics, biology, cannot be accomplished in the absence of mathematics. engineering requires the application of basic science and math to the lived experience. technology sits firmly on the foundation of math, engineering and science. math itself serves the critical role of rosetta stone, decoding and encoding the physical principles of the world. stem is utterly incomplete without each individual piece. this is to say nothing of the enrichment that is realized when stem is combined with other disciplines.the purpose for this talk is twofold: first, to say directly to every black, latina, indigenous, first nation or any other woman or girl who finds herself resting at the blessed intersection of race and gender, that you can be anything you want to be. my personal hope is that you'll become an astrophysicist, but beyond that, anything you want. do not think for one minute that because you are who you are, you cannot be who you imagine yourself to be. hold fast to those dreams and let them carry you into a world you can't even imagine.secondly, among the most pressing issues of our time, most now find their intersection with stem. we have as a global society solved most of the single-faceted issues of our time. those that remain require a thorough investigation of the liminal space between disciplines to create the multifaceted solutions of tomorrow. who better to solve these liminal problems than those who have faced their whole lives at the intersections. we as thought leaders and decision makers must push past the first steps of diversity and into the richer and more robust territory of full inclusion and equal opportunity.one of my favorite examples of liminal excellence comes from the late dr. claudia alexander, a black woman plasma physicist, who passed away this past july after a 10-year bout with breast cancer. she was a nasa project scientist who spearheaded the nasa side of the rosetta mission, which became famous this year for landing a rover on a comet, and the 1.5 billion dollar galileo mission to jupiter, two high-profile scientific victories for nasa, the united states and the world. dr. alexander said it this way: "i'm used to walking between two cultures. for me, it's among the purposes of my life to take us from states of ignorance to states of understanding with bold exploration that you can't do every day."this shows exactly the power of a liminal person. she had the technical ability to spearhead some of the most ambitious space missions of our time, and she perfectly understood her place of being exactly who she was in any place she was.jessica matthews, inventor of the soccket line of sports products, like soccer balls, that generate renewable energy as you play with them, said it this way: "a major part of invention isn't just creating things, it's understanding people and understanding the systems that make this world." the reason i tell my story and the story of dr. alexander and jessica matthews is because they are fundamentally intersectional stories, the stories of lives lived at the nexus of race, gender and innovation.despite implicit and explicit questions of my right to be in an elite space, i'm proud to report that when i graduated, i was the first black woman to earn a phd in astrophysics in yale's then 312-year history. i am now part of a small but growing cadre of women of color in stem who are poised to bring new perspectives and new ideas to life on the most pressing issues of our time: things like educational inequities, police brutality, hiv/aids, climate change, genetic editing, artificial intelligence and mars exploration. this is to say nothing of the things we haven't even thought of yet.women of color in stem occupy some of the toughest and most exciting sociotechnological issues of our time. thus, we are uniquely positioned to contribute to and drive these conversations in ways that are more inclusive of a wider variety of lived experience. this outlook can be expanded to the many intersectional people whose experiences, positive and negative, enrich the conversations in ways that outmatch even the best-resourced homogenous groups.this is not a request born out of a desire to fit in. it's a reminder that we cannot get to the best possible outcomes for the totality of humanity without precisely this collaboration, this bringing together of the liminal, the differently lived, distinctly experienced and disparately impacted. simply put, we cannot be the most excellent expression of our collective genius without the full measure of humanity brought to bear.thank you. <title = "Forget shopping. Soon you'll download your new clothes">
<tags = "['TEDYouth', 'art', 'business', 'design', 'fashion', 'future', 'invention', 'manufacturing', 'materials', 'shopping']">
<occupation = "Fashion designer">
in the past few months, i've been traveling for weeks at a time with only one suitcase of clothes. one day, i was invited to an important event, and i wanted to wear something special and new for it. so i looked through my suitcase and i couldn't find anything to wear. i was lucky to be at the technology conference on that day, and i had access to 3d printers. so i quickly designed a skirt on my computer, and i loaded the file on the printer. it just printed the pieces overnight. the next morning, i just took all the pieces, assembled them together in my hotel room, and this is actually the skirt that i'm wearing right now. so it wasn't the first time that i printed clothes. for my senior collection at fashion design school, i decided to try and 3d print an entire fashion collection from my home. the problem was that i barely knew anything about 3d printing, and i had only nine months to figure out how to print five fashionable looks.i always felt most creative when i worked from home. i loved experimenting with new materials, and i always tried to develop new techniques to make the most unique textiles for my fashion projects. i loved going to old factories and weird stores in search of leftovers of strange powders and weird materials, and then bring them home to experiment on. as you can probably imagine, my roommates didn't like that at all. so i decided to move on to working with big machines, ones that didn't fit in my living room. i love the exact and the custom work i can do with all kinds of fashion technologies, like knitting machines and laser cutting and silk printing.one summer break, i came here to new york for an internship at a fashion house in chinatown. we worked on two incredible dresses that were 3d printed. they were amazing — like you can see here. but i had a few issues with them. they were made from hard plastics and that's why they were very breakable. the models couldn't sit in them, and they even got scratched from the plastics under their arms.with 3d printing, the designers had so much freedom to make the dresses look exactly like they wanted, but still, they were very dependent on big and expensive industrial printers that were located in a lab far from their studio.later that year, a friend gave me a 3d printed necklace, printed using a home printer. i knew that these printers were much cheaper and much more accessible than the ones we used at my internship. so i looked at the necklace, and then i thought, "if i can print a necklace from home, why not print my clothes from home, too?" i really liked the idea that i wouldn't have to go to the market and pick fabrics that someone else chose to sell — i could just design them and print them directly from home.i found a small makerspace, where i learned everything i know about 3d printing. right away, they literally gave me the key to the lab, so i could experiment into the night, every night.the main challenge was to find the right filament for printing clothes with. so what is a filament? filament is the material you feed the printer with. and i spent a month or so experimenting with pla, which is a hard and scratchy, breakable material.the breakthrough came when i was introduced to filaflex, which is a new kind of filament. it's strong, yet very flexible. and with it, i was able to print the first garment, the red jacket that had the word "liberté" — "freedom" in french — embedded into it. i chose this word because i felt so empowered and free when i could just design a garment from my home and then print it by myself. and actually, you can easily download this jacket, and easily change the word to something else. for example, your name or your sweetheart's name. so the printer plates are small, so i had to piece the garment together, just like a puzzle.and i wanted to solve another challenge. i wanted to print textiles that i would use just like regular fabrics. that's when i found an open-source file from an architect who designed a pattern that i love. and with it, i was able to print a beautiful textile that i would use just like a regular fabric. and it actually even looks a little bit like lace.so i took his file and i modified it, and changed it, played with it — many kinds of versions out of it. and i needed to print another 1,500 more hours to complete printing my collection. so i brought six printers to my home and just printed 24-7. and this is actually a really slow process, but let's remember the internet was significantly slower 20 years ago, so 3d printing will also accelerate and in no time you'll be able to print a t-shirt in your home in just a couple of hours, or even minutes.so you guys, you want to see what it looks like?audience: yeah! danit peleg: rebecca is wearing one of my five outfits. almost everything here she's wearing, i printed from my home. even her shoes are printed.audience: wow!audience: cool! danit peleg: thank you, rebecca. (to audience) thank you, guys.so i think in the future, materials will evolve, and they will look and feel like fabrics we know today, like cotton or silk. imagine personalized clothes that fit exactly to your measurements.music was once a very physical thing. you would have to go to the record shop and buy cds, but now you can just download the music — digital music — directly to your phone. fashion is also a very physical thing. and i wonder what our world will look like when our clothes will be digital, just like this skirt is.thank you so much. [thank you] <title = "How germs travel on planes -- and how we can stop them">
<tags = "['TEDYouth', 'aircraft', 'bacteria', 'design', 'engineering', 'flight', 'health', 'illness', 'innovation', 'invention', 'physics', 'science', 'transportation']">
<occupation = "Inventor">
can i get a show of hands — how many of you in this room have been on a plane in this past year? that's pretty good. well, it turns out that you share that experience with more than three billion people every year. and when we put so many people in all these metal tubes that fly all over the world, sometimes, things like this can happen and you get a disease epidemic.i first actually got into this topic when i heard about the ebola outbreak last year. and it turns out that, although ebola spreads through these more range-limited, large-droplet routes, there's all these other sorts of diseases that can be spread in the airplane cabin. the worst part is, when we take a look at some of the numbers, it's pretty scary. so with h1n1, there was this guy that decided to go on the plane and in the matter of a single flight actually spread the disease to 17 other people. and then there was this other guy with sars, who managed to go on a three-hour flight and spread the disease to 22 other people. that's not exactly my idea of a great superpower.when we take a look at this, what we also find is that it's very difficult to pre-screen for these diseases. so when someone actually goes on a plane, they could be sick and they could actually be in this latency period in which they could actually have the disease but not exhibit any symptoms, and they could, in turn, spread the disease to many other people in the cabin.how that actually works is that right now we've got air coming in from the top of the cabin and from the side of the cabin, as you see in blue. and then also, that air goes out through these very efficient filters that eliminate 99.97 percent of pathogens near the outlets. what happens right now, though, is that we have this mixing airflow pattern. so if someone were to actually sneeze, that air would get swirled around multiple times before it even has a chance to go out through the filter. so i thought: clearly, this is a pretty serious problem.i didn't have the money to go out and buy a plane, so i decided to build a computer instead. it actually turns out that with computational fluid dynamics, what we're able to do is create these simulations that give us higher resolutions than actually physically going in and taking readings in the plane. and so how, essentially, this works is you would start out with these 2d drawings — these are floating around in technical papers around the internet. i take that and then i put it into this 3d-modeling software, really building that 3d model. and then i divide that model that i just built into these tiny pieces, essentially meshing it so that the computer can better understand it. and then i tell the computer where the air goes in and out of the cabin, throw in a bunch of physics and basically sit there and wait until the computer calculates the simulation.so what we get, actually, with the conventional cabin is this: you'll notice the middle person sneezing, and we go "splat!" — it goes right into people's faces. it's pretty disgusting. from the front, you'll notice those two passengers sitting next to the central passenger not exactly having a great time. and when we take a look at that from the side, you'll also notice those pathogens spreading across the length of the cabin.the first thing i thought was, "this is no good." so i actually conducted more than 32 different simulations and ultimately, i came up with this solution right here. this is what i call a — patent pending — global inlet director. with this, we're able to reduce pathogen transmission by about 55 times, and increase fresh-air inhalation by about 190 percent.so how this actually works is we would install this piece of composite material into these existing spots that are already in the plane. so it's very cost-effective to install and we can do this directly overnight. all we have to do is put a couple of screws in there and you're good to go. and the results that we get are absolutely amazing. instead of having those problematic swirling airflow patterns, we can create these walls of air that come down in-between the passengers to create personalized breathing zones.so you'll notice the middle passenger here is sneezing again, but this time, we're able to effectively push that down to the filters for elimination. and same thing from the side, you'll notice we're able to directly push those pathogens down. so if you take a look again now at the same scenario but with this innovation installed, you'll notice the middle passenger sneezes, and this time, we're pushing that straight down into the outlet before it gets a chance to infect any other people. so you'll notice the two passengers sitting next to the middle guy are breathing virtually no pathogens at all. take a look at that from the side as well, you see a very efficient system.and in short, with this system, we win. when we take a look at what this means, what we see is that this not only works if the middle passenger sneezes, but also if the window-seat passenger sneezes or if the aisle-seat passenger sneezes.and so with this solution, what does this mean for the world? well, when we take a look at this from the computer simulation into real life, we can see with this 3d model that i built over here, essentially using 3d printing, we can see those same airflow patterns coming down, right to the passengers. in the past, the sars epidemic actually cost the world about 40 billion dollars. and in the future, a big disease outbreak could actually cost the world in excess of three trillion dollars. so before, it used to be that you had to take an airplane out of service for one to two months, spend tens of thousands of man hours and several million dollars to try to change something. but now, we're able to install something essentially overnight and see results right away.so it's really now a matter of taking this through to certification, flight testing, and going through all of these regulatory approvals processes. but it just really goes to show that sometimes the best solutions are the simplest solutions. and two years ago, even, this project would not have happened, just because the technology then wouldn't have supported it. but now with advanced computing and how developed our internet is, it's really the golden era for innovation.and so the question i ask all of you today is: why wait? together, we can build the future today.thanks. <title = "A beatboxing lesson from a father-daughter duo">
<tags = "['TEDYouth', 'art', 'entertainment', 'family', 'live music', 'music', 'performance']">
<occupation = "Beatboxers">
nicole paris: tedyouth, make some noise!(beatboxing) tedyouth, make some —(beatboxing)(beatboxing ends)are you ready?(cheers and applause)are you ready?ed cage: yeah, yeah, yeah!(beatboxing) ec: y'all like that? let me show you how we used to do it —np: get it pops, go ahead.ec: ... when i was growing up in the '90s.(beatboxing)(beatboxing ends) (beatboxing)np: pops, pops, pops, pops, pops, pops, hold up, hold up, hold up, hold up! oh my god. ok, he's trying to battle me. hold on, right now, hold on. do you remember when you used to beatbox me to sleep?ec: yeah, yeah, i remember. that's when she was a little baby. we would do something like this.(beatboxing)np: i remember that.(beatboxing)np: all right, pops, pops, pops, chill out, chill out. hold up, hold up, hold up.ec: y'all remember the video. this is like a little payback or something for 50 million people calling me the loser.np: hold up, hold up. but a lot of people out there don't really know what beatboxing is, where it started from.ec: right, right.np: where it came from. so why don't you give them a little history — just a tickle — a bit of history of where it comes from.ec: beatbox started here in new york.(cheers)that's right, that's right. new york, new york! everybody like, "yeah!" well, we from st. louis. np: now you can put y'all hands down. ec: but beatbox started here in new york. what you would have is that, when we would go to parties, you would have the dj and you would have the rapper. but because i don't have electricity coming out of me, we had to emulate what the beats was doing. so when you would see the beatboxer, you would see us over to the side. then you would see a rapper, and when the rapper began to rap, we would do a simple beat, because back then the beats were simple —(beatboxing)or —(beatboxing)those were simple beats. but now, you got folks that want to do all type of stuff with their beats now, and they want to humiliate their father, which is not right when you want to humiliate the person that take care of you, pay all your tuition, (nicole laughs) especially when you have 50 million people that just go around and call you "the loser." well, i'm taking that to heart. but now we do something different in our house, so we have these jam sessions, and our jam sessions consist of us jamming in church. you know, in church, we'll look at each other like,(beatboxing) and we'll text the beat to each other. or we'll be in the kitchen cooking, road trips, airports.np: standing right there in the corner, "aw, dad — listen to that."(beatboxing)naw, i'm kidding. but you know what? we're talking all about this jam session and everything.ec: yeah.np: why don't we give them a little peek, just a tiny bit of our jam session?np: y'all want to hear some jam session? ec: y'all ready for a jam session?(cheers)np: sorry? i can't hear you.(cheers)yeah! kick it, pops!(beatboxing) (beatboxing)(beatboxing ends) np: i'm getting ready to go!ec: y'all ready? everybody stand up! come on, everybody stand up! get on up! come on, stretch!(beatboxing)(beatboxing ends)np: that's it.(cheers and applause)thank you! make some noise!eg: thank you, everybody!np: make some noise! make some noise!thank you!<title = "The four fish we're overeating -- and what to eat instead">
<tags = "['animals', 'biotech', 'ecology', 'fish', 'food', 'innovation', 'mission blue', 'oceans', 'science']">
<occupation = "Author">
so when i was a kid ... this was my team. i stunk at sports. i didn't like to play them, i didn't like to watch them. so this is what i did. i went fishing. and for all of my growing up i fished on the shores of connecticut, and these are the creatures that i saw on a regular basis. but after i grew up and went to college, and i came home in the early 90's, this is what i found. my team had shrunk. it was like literally having your roster devastated. and as i sort of looked into that, from a very personal point of view as a fisherman, i started to kind of figure out, well, what was the rest of the world thinking about it?first place i started to look was fish markets. and when i went to fish markets, in spite of where i was — whether i was in north carolina, or paris, or london, or wherever — i kept seeing this weirdly repeating trope of four creatures, again and again — on the menus, on ice — shrimp, tuna, salmon and cod. and i thought this was pretty strange, and as i looked at it, i was wondering, did anyone else notice this sort of shrinking of the market?well, when i looked into it, i realized that people didn't look at it as their team. ordinary people, the way they looked at seafood was like this. it's not an unusual human characteristic to reduce the natural world down to very few elements. we did it before, 10,000 years ago, when we came out of our caves. if you look at fire pits from 10,000 years ago, you'll see raccoons, you'll see, you know, wolves, you'll see all kinds of different creatures. but if you telescope to the age of — you know, 2,000 years ago, you'll see these four mammals: pigs, cows, sheep and goats. it's true of birds, too. you look at the menus in new york city restaurants 150 years ago, 200 years ago, you'll see snipe, woodcock, grouse, dozens of ducks, dozens of geese. but telescope ahead to the age of modern animal husbandry, and you'll see four: turkeys, ducks, chicken and geese.so it makes sense that we've headed in this direction. but how have we headed in this direction? well ... first it's a very, very new problem. this is the way we've been fishing the oceans over the last 50 years. world war ii was a tremendous incentive to arm ourselves in a war against fish. all of the technology that we perfected during world war ii — sonar, lightweight polymers — all these things were redirected towards fish. and so you see this tremendous buildup in fishing capacity, quadrupling in the course of time, from the end of world war ii to the present time. and right now that means we're taking between 80 and 90 million metric tons out of the sea every year. that's the equivalent of the human weight of china taken out of the sea every year. and it's no coincidence that i use china as the example because china is now the largest fishing nation in the world.well, that's only half the story. the other half of the story is this incredible boom in fish farming and aquaculture, which is now, only in the last year or two, starting to exceed the amount of wild fish that we produce. so that if you add wild fish and farmed fish together, you get the equivalent of two chinas created from the ocean each and every year. and again, it's not a coincidence that i use china as the example, because china, in addition to being the biggest catcher of fish, is also the biggest farmer of fish.so let's look though at the four choices we are making right now. the first one — by far the most consumed seafood in america and in much of the west, is shrimp. shrimp in the wild — as a wild product — is a terrible product. 5, 10, 15 pounds of wild fish are regularly killed to bring one pound of shrimp to the market. they're also incredibly fuel inefficient to bring to the market. in a recent study that was produced out of dalhousie university, it was found that dragging for shrimp is one of the most carbon-intensive ways of fishing that you can find.so you can farm them, and people do farm them, and they farm them a lot in this very area. problem is ... the place where you farm shrimp is in these wild habitats — in mangrove forests. now look at those lovely roots coming down. those are the things that hold soil together, protect coasts, create habitats for all sorts of young fish, young shrimp, all sorts of things that are important to this environment. well, this is what happens to a lot of coastal mangrove forests. we've lost millions of acres of coastal mangroves over the last 30 or 40 years. that rate of destruction has slowed, but we're still in a major mangrove deficit.the other thing that's going on here is a phenomenon that the filmmaker mark benjamin called "grinding nemo." this phenomenon is very, very relevant to anything that you've ever seen on a tropical reef. because what's going on right now, we have shrimp draggers dragging for shrimp, catching a huge amount of bycatch, that bycatch in turn gets ground up and turned into shrimp food. and sometimes, many of these vessels — manned by slaves — are catching these so-called "trash fish," fish that we would love to see on a reef, grinding them up and turning them into shrimp feed — an ecosystem literally eating itself and spitting out shrimp.the next most consumed seafood in america, and also throughout the west, is tuna. so tuna is this ultimate global fish. these huge management areas have to be observed in order for tuna to be well managed. our own management area, called a regional fisheries management organization, is called iccat, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the great naturalist carl safina once called it, "the international conspiracy to catch all the tunas." of course we've seen incredible improvement in iccat in the last few years, there is total room for improvement, but it remains to be said that tuna is a global fish, and to manage it, we have to manage the globe.well, we could also try to grow tuna but tuna is a spectacularly bad animal for aquaculture. many people don't know this but tuna are warm-blooded. they can heat their bodies 20 degrees above ambient temperature, they can swim at over 40 miles an hour. so that pretty much eliminates all the advantages of farming a fish, right? a farmed fish is — or a fish is cold-blooded, it doesn't move too much. that's a great thing for growing protein. but if you've got this crazy, wild creature that swims at 40 miles an hour and heats its blood — not a great candidate for aquaculture.the next creature — most consumed seafood in america and throughout the west — is salmon. now salmon got its plundering, too, but it didn't really necessarily happen through fishing. this is my home state of connecticut. connecticut used to be home to a lot of wild salmon. but if you look at this map of connecticut, every dot on that map is a dam. there are over 3,000 dams in the state of connecticut. i often say this is why people in connecticut are so uptight — if somebody could just unblock connecticut's chi, i feel that we could have an infinitely better world. but i made this particular comment at a convention once of national parks officers, and this guy from north carolina sidled up to me, he says, "you know, you oughtn't be so hard on your connecticut, cause we here in north carolina, we got 35,000 dams." so it's a national epidemic, it's an international epidemic. and there are dams everywhere, and these are precisely the things that stop wild salmon from reaching their spawning grounds.so as a result, we've turned to aquaculture, and salmon is one the most successful, at least from a numbers point of view. when they first started farming salmon, it could take as many as six pounds of wild fish to make a single pound of salmon. the industry has, to its credit, greatly improved. they've gotten it below two to one, although it's a little bit of a cheat because if you look at the way aquaculture feed is produced, they're measuring pellets — pounds of pellets per pound of salmon. those pellets are in turn reduced fish. so the actual — what's called the fifo, the fish in and the fish out — kind of hard to say. but in any case, credit to the industry, it has lowered the amount of fish per pound of salmon.problem is we've also gone crazy with the amount of salmon that we're producing. aquaculture is the fastest growing food system on the planet. it's growing at something like seven percent per year. and so even though we're doing less per fish to bring it to the market, we're still killing a lot of these little fish.and it's not just fish that we're feeding fish to, we're also feeding fish to chickens and pigs. so we've got chickens and they're eating fish, but weirdly, we also have fish that are eating chickens. because the byproducts of chickens — feathers, blood, bone — get ground up and fed to fish. so i often wonder, is there a fish that ate a chicken that ate a fish? it's sort of a reworking of the chicken and egg thing. anyway — all together, though, it results in a terrible mess. what you're talking about is something between 20 and 30 million metric tons of wild creatures that are taken from the ocean and used and ground up. that's the equivalent of a third of a china, or of an entire united states of humans that's taken out of the sea each and every year.the last of the four is a kind of amorphous thing. it's what the industry calls "whitefish." there are many fish that get cycled into this whitefish thing but the way to kind of tell the story, i think, is through that classic piece of american culinary innovation, the filet-o-fish sandwich. so the filet-o-fish sandwich actually started as halibut. and it started because a local franchise owner found that when he served his mcdonald's on friday, nobody came. because it was a catholic community, they needed fish. so he went to ray kroc and he said, "i'm going to bring you a fish sandwich, going to be made out of halibut." ray kroc said, "i don't think it's going to work. i want to do a hula burger, and there's going to be a slice of pineapple on a bun. but let's do this, let's have a bet. whosever sandwich sells more, that will be the winning sandwich." well, it's kind of sad for the ocean that the hula burger didn't win. so he made his halibut sandwich. unfortunately though, the sandwich came in at 30 cents. ray wanted the sandwich to come in at 25 cents, so he turned to atlantic cod. we all know what happened to atlantic cod in new england.so now the filet-o-fish sandwich is made out of alaska pollock, it's the largest fin fish fishery in the united states, 2 to 3 billion pounds of fish taken out of the sea every single year. if we go through the pollock, the next choice is probably going to be tilapia. tilapia is one of those fish nobody ever heard of 20 years ago. it's actually a very efficient converter of plant protein into animal protein, and it's been a godsend to the third world. it's actually a tremendously sustainable solution, it goes from an egg to an adult in nine months. the problem is that when you look about the west, it doesn't do what the west wants it to do. it really doesn't have what's called an oily fish profile. it doesn't have the epa and dha omega-3s that we all think are going to make us live forever.so what do we do? i mean, first of all, what about this poor fish, the clupeids? the fish that represent a huge part of that 20 to 30 million metric tons. well, one possibility that a lot of conservationists have raised is could we eat them? could we eat them directly instead of feeding them to salmon? there are arguments for it. they are tremendously fuel efficient to bring to market, a fraction of the fuel cost of say, shrimp, and at the very top of the carbon efficiency scale. they also are omega-3 rich, a great source for epa and dha. so that is a potential. and if we were to go down that route what i would say is, instead of paying a few bucks a pound — or a few bucks a ton, really — and making it into aquafeed, could we halve the catch and double the price for the fishermen and make that our way of treating these particular fish?other possibility though, which is much more interesting, is looking at bivalves, particularly mussels. now, mussels are very high in epa and dha, they're similar to canned tuna. they're also extremely fuel efficient. to bring a pound of mussels to market is about a thirtieth of the carbon as required to bring beef to market. they require no forage fish, they actually get their omega-3s by filtering the water of microalgae. in fact, that's where omega-3s come from, they don't come from fish. microalgae make the omega-3s, they're only bioconcentrated in fish.mussels and other bivalves do tremendous amounts of water filtration. a single mussel can filter dozens of gallons every single day. and this is incredibly important when we look at the world. right now, nitrification, overuse of phosphates in our waterways are causing tremendous algal blooms. over 400 new dead zones have been created in the last 20 years, tremendous sources of marine life death.we also could look at not a fish at all. we could look at a vegetable. we could look at seaweed, the kelps, all these different varieties of things that can be high in omega-3s, can be high in proteins, tremendously good things. they filter the water just like mussels do. and weirdly enough, it turns out that you can actually feed this to cows. now, i'm not a big fan of cattle. but if you wanted to keep growing cattle in a time and place where water resources are limited, you're growing seaweed in the water, you don't have to water it — major consideration.and the last fish is a question mark. we have the ability to create aquacultured fish that creates a net gain of marine protein for us. this creature would have to be vegetarian, it would have to be fast growing, it would have to be adaptable to a changing climate and it would have to have that oily fish profile, that epa, dha, omega-3 fatty acid profile that we're looking for.this exists kind of on paper. i have been reporting on these subjects for 15 years. every time i do a new story, somebody tells me, "we can do all that. we can do it. we've figured it all out. we can produce a fish that's a net gain of marine protein and has omega-3s." great. it doesn't seem to be getting scaled up. it is time to scale this up. if we do, 30 million metric tons of seafood, a third of the world catch, stays in the water.so i guess what i'm saying is this is what we've been going with. we tend to go with our appetites rather than our minds. but if we went with this, or some configuration of it, we might have a little more of this.thank you. <title = "Let's not use Mars as a backup planet">
<tags = "['Mars', 'NASA', 'Planets', 'TED Fellows', 'astronomy', 'exploration', 'future', 'humanity', 'solar system', 'space', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Stellar astronomer">
we're at a tipping point in human history, a species poised between gaining the stars and losing the planet we call home.even in just the past few years, we've greatly expanded our knowledge of how earth fits within the context of our universe. nasa's kepler mission has discovered thousands of potential planets around other stars, indicating that earth is but one of billions of planets in our galaxy. kepler is a space telescope that measures the subtle dimming of stars as planets pass in front of them, blocking just a little bit of that light from reaching us. kepler's data reveals planets' sizes as well as their distance from their parent star. together, this helps us understand whether these planets are small and rocky, like the terrestrial planets in our own solar system, and also how much light they receive from their parent sun. in turn, this provides clues as to whether these planets that we discover might be habitable or not.unfortunately, at the same time as we're discovering this treasure trove of potentially habitable worlds, our own planet is sagging under the weight of humanity. 2014 was the hottest year on record. glaciers and sea ice that have been with us for millennia are now disappearing in a matter of decades. these planetary-scale environmental changes that we have set in motion are rapidly outpacing our ability to alter their course.but i'm not a climate scientist, i'm an astronomer. i study planetary habitability as influenced by stars with the hopes of finding the places in the universe where we might discover life beyond our own planet. you could say that i look for choice alien real estate.now, as somebody who is deeply embedded in the search for life in the universe, i can tell you that the more you look for planets like earth, the more you appreciate our own planet itself. each one of these new worlds invites a comparison between the newly discovered planet and the planets we know best: those of our own solar system.consider our neighbor, mars. mars is small and rocky, and though it's a bit far from the sun, it might be considered a potentially habitable world if found by a mission like kepler. indeed, it's possible that mars was habitable in the past, and in part, this is why we study mars so much. our rovers, like curiosity, crawl across its surface, scratching for clues as to the origins of life as we know it. orbiters like the maven mission sample the martian atmosphere, trying to understand how mars might have lost its past habitability. private spaceflight companies now offer not just a short trip to near space but the tantalizing possibility of living our lives on mars.but though these martian vistas resemble the deserts of our own home world, places that are tied in our imagination to ideas about pioneering and frontiers, compared to earth mars is a pretty terrible place to live. consider the extent to which we have not colonized the deserts of our own planet, places that are lush by comparison with mars. even in the driest, highest places on earth, the air is sweet and thick with oxygen exhaled from thousands of miles away by our rainforests.i worry — i worry that this excitement about colonizing mars and other planets carries with it a long, dark shadow: the implication and belief by some that mars will be there to save us from the self-inflicted destruction of the only truly habitable planet we know of, the earth. as much as i love interplanetary exploration, i deeply disagree with this idea. there are many excellent reasons to go to mars, but for anyone to tell you that mars will be there to back up humanity is like the captain of the titanic telling you that the real party is happening later on the lifeboats.  thank you.but the goals of interplanetary exploration and planetary preservation are not opposed to one another. no, they're in fact two sides of the same goal: to understand, preserve and improve life into the future. the extreme environments of our own world are alien vistas. they're just closer to home. if we can understand how to create and maintain habitable spaces out of hostile, inhospitable spaces here on earth, perhaps we can meet the needs of both preserving our own environment and moving beyond it.i leave you with a final thought experiment: fermi's paradox. many years ago, the physicist enrico fermi asked that, given the fact that our universe has been around for a very long time and we expect that there are many planets within it, we should have found evidence for alien life by now. so where are they? well, one possible solution to fermi's paradox is that, as civilizations become technologically advanced enough to consider living amongst the stars, they lose sight of how important it is to safeguard the home worlds that fostered that advancement to begin with. it is hubris to believe that interplanetary colonization alone will save us from ourselves, but planetary preservation and interplanetary exploration can work together.if we truly believe in our ability to bend the hostile environments of mars for human habitation, then we should be able to surmount the far easier task of preserving the habitability of the earth.thank you. <title = "What happens when a city runs out of room for its dead">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'TEDx', 'aging', 'architecture', 'cities', 'death', 'design', 'humanity']">
<occupation = "Architect">
so, i have an overlooked but potentially lucrative investment opportunity for you. over the past 10 years in the uk, the return on burial plots has outperformed the uk property market by a ratio of around three to one. there are private cemeteries being set up with plots for sale to investors, and they start at around 3,900 pounds. and they're projected to achieve about 40 percent growth. the biggest advantage is that this is a market with continuous demand.now, this is a real proposition, and there are companies out there that really are offering this investment, but my interest in it is quite different. i'm an architect and urban designer, and for the past year and a half, i've been looking at approaches to death and dying and at how they've shaped our cities and the buildings within them.so in the summer, i did my first exhibition on death and architecture in venice, and it was called "death in venice." and because death is a subject that many of us find quite uncomfortable to talk about, the exhibition was designed to be quite playful, so that people would literally engage with it. so one of our exhibits was an interactive map of london which showed just how much of the real estate in the city is given over to death. as you wave your hand across the map, the name of the piece of real estate — the building or the cemetery — is revealed. and those white shapes that you can see, they're all of the hospitals and hospices and mortuaries and cemeteries in the city. in fact, the majority are cemeteries. we wanted to show that, even though death and burial are things that we might not think about, they're all around us, and they're important parts of our cities.so about half a million people die in the uk each year, and of those, around a quarter will want to be buried. but the uk, like many western european countries, is running out of burial space, especially in the major cities. and the greater london authority has been aware of this for a while, and the main causes are population growth, the fact that existing cemeteries are almost full. there's a custom in the uk that graves are considered to be occupied forever, and there's also development pressure — people want to use that same land to build houses or offices or shops.so they came up with a few solutions. they were like, well, maybe we can reuse those graves after 50 years. or maybe we can bury people, like, four deep, so that four people can be buried in the same plot, and we can make more efficient use of the land that way, and in that way, hopefully london will still have space to bury people in the near future.but, traditionally, cemeteries haven't been taken care of by the local authority. in fact, the surprising thing is that there's no legal obligation on anyone in the uk to provide burial space. traditionally, it's been done by private and religious organizations, like churches and mosques and synagogues. but there's also occasionally been a for-profit group who has wanted to get in on the act. and, you know, they look at the small size of a burial plot and that high cost, and it looks like there's serious money to be made.so, actually, if you want to go out and start your own cemetery, you kind of can. there was this couple in south wales, and they had a farmhouse and a load of fields next to it, and they wanted to develop the land. they had a load of ideas. they first thought about making a caravan park, but the council said no. and then they wanted to make a fish farm and again the council said no. then they hit on the idea of making a cemetery and they calculated that by doing this, they could increase the value of their land from about 95,000 pounds to over one million pounds.but just to come back to this idea of making profit from cemeteries, like, it's kind of ludicrous, right? the thing is that the high cost of those burial plots is actually very misleading. they look like they're expensive, but that cost reflects the fact that you need to maintain the burial plot — like, someone has to cut the grass for the next 50 years. that means it's very difficult to make money from cemeteries. and it's the reason that normally they're run by the council or by a not-for-profit group. but anyway, the council granted these people permission, and they're now trying to build their cemetery.so just to explain to you kind of how this works: if i want to build something in the uk, like a cemetery for example, then i have to apply for planning permission first. so if i want to build a new office building for a client or if i want to extend my home or, you know, if i have a shop and i want to convert it into an office, i have to do a load of drawings, and i submit them to the council for permission. and they'll look at things like how it fits in the surroundings. so they'll look at what it looks like. but they'll also think about things like what impact is it going to have on the local environment? and they'll be thinking about things like, is this thing going to cause pollution or is there going to be a lot of traffic that wants to go to this thing that i've built? but also good things. is it going to add local services like shops to the neighborhood that local people would like to use? and they'll weigh up the advantages and the disadvantages and they'll make a decision.so that's how it works if i want to build a large cemetery. but what if i've got a piece of land and i just want to bury a few people, like five or six? well, then — actually, i don't need permission from anyone! there's actually almost no regulation in the uk around burial, and the little bit that there is, is about not polluting water courses, like not polluting rivers or groundwater. so actually, if you want to go and make your own mini-cemetery, then you can.but i mean, like — really, who does this? right? well, if you're an aristocratic family and you have a large estate, then there's a chance that you'll have a mausoleum on it, and you'll bury your family there. but the really weird thing is that you don't need to have a piece of land of a certain size before you're allowed to start burying people on it. and so that means that, technically, this applies to, like, the back garden of your house in the suburbs. so what if you wanted to try this yourself at home? well, there's a few councils that have guidance on their website which can help you.so, the first thing that they tell you is that you need to have a certificate of burial before you can go ahead — you're not allowed to just murder people and put them under the patio. they also tell you that you need to keep a record of where the grave is. but that's pretty much it for formal requirements. now, they do warn you that your neighbors might not like this, but, legally speaking, there's almost nothing that they can do about it. and just in case any of you still had that profit idea in your mind about how much those burial plots cost and how much money you might be able to make, they also warn that it might cause the value of your house to drop by 20 percent. although, actually, it's more likely that no one will want to buy your house at all after that.so what i find fascinating about this is the fact that it kind of sums up many of our attitudes towards death. in the uk, and i think that the figures across europe are probably similar, only about 30 percent of people have ever talked to anyone about their wishes around death, and even for people over 75, only 45 percent of people have ever talked about this. and the reasons that people give ... you know, they think that their death is far off or they think that they're going to make people uncomfortable by talking about it. and you know, to a certain extent, there are other people out there who are taking care of things for us. the government has all this regulation and bureaucracy around things like burying a death, for example, and there's people like funeral directors who devote their entire working lives to this issue. but when it comes to our cities and thinking about how death fits in our cities, there's much less regulation and design and thought than we might imagine.so we're not thinking about this, but all of the people we imagine are thinking about it — they're not taking care of it either.thank you. <title = "A hilarious celebration of lifelong female friendship">
<tags = "['Gender equality', 'aging', 'comedy', 'friendship', 'humanity', 'humor', 'identity', 'interview', 'life', 'personal growth', 'relationships', 'self', 'women']">
<occupation = "Actor and activist">
pat mitchell: so i was thinking about female friendship a lot, and by the way, these two women, i'm very honored to say, have been my friends for a very long time, too. jane fonda: yes we have.pm: and one of the things that i read about female friendship is something that cervantes said. he said, "you can tell a lot about someone," in this case a woman, "by the company that she keeps." so let's start with — jf: we're in big trouble.lily tomlin: hand me one of those waters, i'm extremely dry. jf: you're taking up our time. we have a very limited —lt: just being with her sucks the life out of me. jf: you ain't seen nothing yet. anyway — sorry.pm: so tell me, what do you look for in a friend?lt: i look for someone who has a sense of fun, who's audacious, who's forthcoming, who has politics, who has even a small scrap of passion for the planet, someone who's decent, has a sense of justice and who thinks i'm worthwhile. jf: you know, i was thinking this morning, i don't even know what i would do without my women friends. i mean it's, "i have my friends, therefore i am."lt: jf: no, it's true. i exist because i have my women friends. they — you're one of them. i don't know about you. but anyway — you know, they make me stronger, they make me smarter, they make me braver. they tap me on the shoulder when i might be in need of course-correcting. and most of them are a good deal younger than me, too. you know? i mean, it's nice — lt: thank you. jf: no, i do, i include you in that, because listen, you know — it's nice to have somebody still around to play with and learn from when you're getting toward the end. i'm approaching — i'll be there sooner than you.lt: no, i'm glad to have you parallel aging alongside me. jf: i'm showing you the way. lt: well, you are and you have.pm: well, as we grow older, and as we go through different kinds of life's journeys, what do you do to keep your friendships vital and alive?lt: well you have to use a lot of —jf: she doesn't invite me over much, i'll tell you that.lt: i have to use a lot of social media — you be quiet now. and so — lt: and i look through my emails, i look through my texts to find my friends, so i can answer them as quickly as possible, because i know they need my counsel. they need my support, because most of my friends are writers, or activists, or actors, and you're all three ... and a long string of other descriptive phrases, and i want to get to you as soon as possible, i want you to know that i'm there for you.jf: do you do emojis?lt: oh ... jf: no?lt: that's embarrassing. jf: i'm really into emojis.lt: no, i spell out my — i spell out my words of happiness and congratulations, and sadness.jf: you spell it right out —lt: i spell it, every letter. jf: such a purist. you know, as i've gotten older, i've understood more the importance of friendships, and so, i really make an effort to reach out and make play dates — not let too much time go by. i read a lot so, as lily knows all too well, my books that i like, i send to my friends.lt: when we knew we would be here today you sent me a lot of books about women, female friendships, and i was so surprised to see how many books, how much research has been done recently —jf: and were you grateful? lt: i was grateful. pm: and —lt: wait, no, it's really important because this is another example of how women are overlooked, put aside, marginalized. there's been very little research done on us, even though we volunteered lots of times.jf: that's for sure. lt: this is really exciting, and you all will be interested in this. the harvard medical school study has shown that women who have close female friendships are less likely to develop impairments — physical impairments as they age, and they are likely to be seen to be living much more vital, exciting —jf: and longer —lt: joyful lives.jf: we live five years longer than men.lt: i think i'd trade the years for joy. lt: but the most important part is they found — the results were so exciting and so conclusive — the researchers found that not having close female friends is detrimental to your health, as much as smoking or being overweight.jf: and there's something else, too —lt: i've said my part, so ... jf: ok, well, listen to my part, because there's an additional thing. because they only — for years, decades — they only researched men when they were trying to understand stress, only very recently have they researched what happens to women when we're stressed, and it turns out that when we're stressed — women, our bodies get flooded by oxytocin. which is a feel-good, calming, stress-reducing hormone. which is also increased when we're with our women friends. and i do think that's one reason why we live longer. and i feel so bad for men because they don't have that. testosterone in men diminishes the effects of oxytocin.lt: well, when you and i and dolly made "9 to 5" ...jf: oh —lt: we laughed, we did, we laughed so much, we found we had so much in common and we're so different. here she is, like hollywood royalty, i'm like a tough kid from detroit, [dolly's] a southern kid from a poor town in tennessee, and we found we were so in sync as women, and we must have — we laughed — we must have added at least a decade onto our lifespans.jf: i think — we sure crossed our legs a lot. if you know what i mean.lt: i think we all know what you mean. pm: you're adding decades to our lives right now. so among the books that jane sent us both to read on female friendship was one by a woman we admire greatly, sister joan chittister, who said about female friendship that women friends are not just a social act, they're a spiritual act. do you think of your friends as spiritual? do they add something spiritual to your lives?lt: spiritual — i absolutely think that. because — especially people you've known a long time, people you've spent time with — i can see the spiritual essence inside them, the tenderness, the vulnerability. there's actually kind of a love, an element of love in the relationship. i just see deeply into your soul.pm: do you think that, jane —lt: but i have special powers.jf: well, there's all kinds of friends. there's business friends, and party friends, i've got a lot of those. but the oxytocin-producing friendships have ... they feel spiritual because it's a heart opening, right? you know, we go deep. and — i find that i shed tears a lot with my intimate friends. not because i'm sad but because i'm so touched and inspired by them.lt: and you know one of you is going to go soon. pm: well, two of us are sitting here, lily, which one are you talking about? and i always think, when women talk about their friendships, that men always look a little mystified. what are the differences, in your opinion, between men friendships and women friendships?jf: there's a lot of difference, and i think we have to have a lot of empathy for men — that they don't have what we have. which i think may be why they die sooner. i have a lot of compassion for men, because women, no kidding, we — women's relationships, our friendships are full disclosure, we go deep. they're revelatory. we risk vulnerability — this is something men don't do. i mean how many times have i asked you, "am i doing ok?" "did i really screw up there?"pm: you're doing great. jf: but i mean, we ask questions like that of our women friends, and men don't. you know, people describe women's relationships as face-to-face, whereas men's friendships are more side-by-side.lt: i mean most of the time men don't want to reveal their emotions, they want to bury deeper feelings. i mean, that's the general, conventional thought. they would rather go off in their man cave and watch a game or hit golf balls, or talk about sports, or hunting, or cars or have sex. i mean, it's just the kind of — it's a more manly behavior.jf: you meant — lt: they talk about sex. i meant they might have sex if they could get somebody in their man cave to — jf: you know something, though, that i find very interesting — and again, psychologists didn't know this until relatively recently — is that men are born every bit as relational as women are. if you look at films of newborn baby boys and girls, you'll see the baby boys just like the girls, gazing into their mother's eyes, you know, needing that relational exchange of energy. when the mother looks away, they could see the dismay on the child, even the boy would cry. they need relationship. so the question is why, as they grow older, does that change? and the answer is patriarchal culture, which says to boys and young men that to be needing of relationship, to be emotional with someone is girly. that a real man doesn't ask directions or express a need, they don't go to doctors if they feel bad. they don't ask for help. there's a quote that i really like, "men fear that becoming 'we' will erase his 'i'." you know, his sense of self. whereas women's sense of self has always been kind of porous. but our "we" is our saving grace, it's what makes us strong. it's not that we're better than men, we just don't have our masculinity to prove.lt: and, well —jf: that's a gloria steinem quote. so we can express our humanity — lt: i know who gloria steinem is.jf: i know you know who she is, but i think it's a — no, but it's a great quote, i think. we're not better than men, we just don't have our masculinity to prove. and that's really important.lt: but men are so inculcated in the culture to be comfortable in the patriarchy. and we've got to make something different happen.jf: women's friendships are like a renewable source of power.lt: well, that's what's exciting about this subject. it's because our friendships — female friendships are just a hop to our sisterhood, and sisterhood can be a very powerful force, to give the world — to make it what it should be — the things that humans desperately need.pm: it is why we're talking about it, because women's friendships are, as you said, jane, a renewable source of power. so how do we use that power?jf: well, women are the fastest growing demographic in the world, especially older women. and if we harness our power, we can change the world. and guess what? we need to. and we need to do it soon. and one of the things that we need to do — and we can do it as women — for one thing, we kind of set the consumer standards. we need to consume less. we in the western world need to consume less and when we buy things, we need to buy things that are made locally, when we buy food, we need to buy food that's grown locally. we are the ones that need to get off the grid. we need to make ourselves independent from fossil fuels. and the fossil fuel companies — the exxons and the shell oils and those bad guys — cause they are — are going to tell us that we can't do it without going back to the stone age. you know, that the alternatives just aren't quite there yet, and that's not true. there are countries in the world right now that are living mostly on renewable energy and doing just fine. and they tell us that if we do wean ourselves from fossil fuel that we're going to be back in the stone age, and in fact, if we begin to use renewable energy, and not drill in the arctic, and not drill —lt: oh, boy.jf: and not drill in the alberta tar sands — right. that we will be — there will be more democracy and more jobs and more well-being, and it's women that are going to lead the way.lt: maybe we have the momentum to start a third-wave feminist movement with our sisterhood around the world, with women we don't see, women we may never meet, but we join together that way, because — aristotle said — most people — people would die without male friendships. and the operative word here was "male." because they thought that friendships should be between equals and women were not considered equal —jf: they didn't think we had souls even, the greeks.lt: no, exactly. that shows you just how limited aristotle was. and wait, no, here's the best part. it's like, you know, men do need women now. the planet needs women. the us constitution needs women. we are not even in the constitution.jf: you're talking about the equal rights amendment.lt: right. justice ginsberg said something like — every constitution that's been written since the end of world war ii included a provision that made women citizens of equal stature, but ours does not. so that would be a good place to start. very, very mild —jf: right. and gender equality, it's like a tide, it would lift all boats, not just women.pm: needing new role models on how to do that. how to be friends, how to think about our power in different ways, as consumers, as citizens of the world, and this is what makes jane and lily a role model of how women can be friends — for a very long time, and even if they occasionally disagree.thank you. thank you both. jf: thanks.lt: thank you.jf: thank you. <title = "Refugees have the right to be protected">
<tags = "['Europe', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'humanity', 'immigration', 'interview', 'policy', 'social change', 'society', 'terrorism']">
<occupation = "Designate Secretary-General of the United Nations">
bruno giussani: commissioner, thank you for coming to ted.antónio guterres: pleasure.bg: let's start with a figure. during 2015, almost one million refugees and migrants arrived in europe from many different countries, of course, from syria and iraq, but also from afghanistan and bangladesh and eritrea and elsewhere. and there have been reactions of two different kinds: welcoming parties and border fences. but i want to look at it a little bit from the short-term and the long-term perspective. and the first question is very simple: why has the movement of refugees spiked so fast in the last six months?ag: well, i think, basically, what triggered this huge increase was the syrian refugee group. there has been an increased movement into europe from africa, from asia, but slowly growing, and all of a sudden we had this massive increase in the first months of this year. why? i think there are three reasons, two long-term ones and the trigger. the long-term ones, in relation to syrians, is that hope is less and less clear for people. i mean, they look at their own country and they don't see much hope to go back home, because there is no political solution, so there is no light at the end of the tunnel. second, the living conditions of the syrians in the neighboring countries have been deteriorating. we just had research with the world bank, and 87 percent of the syrians in jordan and 93 percent of the syrians in lebanon live below the national poverty lines. only half of the children go to school, which means that people are living very badly. not only are they refugees, out of home, not only have they suffered what they have suffered, but they are living in very, very dramatic conditions.and then the trigger was when all of a sudden, international aid decreased. the world food programme was forced, for lack of resources, to cut by 30 percent food support to the syrian refugees. they're not allowed to work, so they are totally dependent on international support, and they felt, "the world is abandoning us." and that, in my opinion, was the trigger. all of a sudden, there was a rush, and people started to move in large numbers and, to be absolutely honest, if i had been in the same situation and i would have been brave enough to do it, i think i would have done the same.bg: but i think what surprised many people is it's not only sudden, but it wasn't supposed to be sudden. the war in syria has been happening for five years. millions of refugees are in camps and villages and towns around syria. you have yourself warned about the situation and about the consequences of a breakdown of libya, for example, and yet europe looked totally unprepared.ag: well, unprepared because divided, and when you are divided, you don't want to recognize the reality. you prefer to postpone decisions, because you do not have the capacity to make them. and the proof is that even when the spike occurred, europe remained divided and was unable to put in place a mechanism to manage the situation. you talk about one million people. it looks enormous, but the population of the european union is 550 million people, which means we are talking about one per every [550] europeans. now, in lebanon, we have one refugee per three lebanese. and lebanon? struggling, of course, but it's managing. so, the question is: is this something that could have been managed if — not mentioning the most important thing, which would have been addressing the root causes, but forgetting about root causes for now, looking at the phenomenon as it is — if europe were able to come together in solidarity to create an adequate reception capacity of entry points? but for that, the countries at entry points need to be massively supported, and then screening the people with security checks and all the other mechanisms, distributing those that are coming into all european countries, according to the possibilities of each country. i mean, if you look at the relocation program that was approved by the commission, always too little too late, or by the council, too little too late —bg: it's already breaking down.ag: my country is supposed to receive four thousand. four thousand in portugal means nothing. so this is perfectly manageable if it is managed, but in the present circumstances, the pressure is at the point of entry, and then, as people move in this chaotic way through the balkans, then they come to germany, sweden, basically, and austria. they are the three countries that are, in the end, receiving the refugees. the rest of europe is looking without doing much.bg: let me try to bring up three questions, playing a bit devil's advocate. i'll try to ask them, make them blunt. but i think the questions are very present in the minds of many people in europe right now, the first, of course, is about numbers. you say 550 million versus one million is not much, but realistically, how many people can europe take?ag: well, that is a question that has no answer, because refugees have the right to be protected. and there is such a thing as international law, so there is no way you can say, "i take 10,000 and that's finished." i remind you of one thing: in turkey, at the beginning of the crisis, i remember one minister saying, "turkey will be able to receive up to 100,000 people." turkey has now two million three-hundred thousand or something of the sort, if you count all refugees.so i don't think it's fair to say how many we can take. what it is fair to say is: how we can we organize ourselves to assume our international responsibilities? and europe has not been able to do so, because basically, europe is divided because there is no solidarity in the european project. and it's not only about refugees; there are many other areas. and let's be honest, this is the moment in which we need more europe instead of less europe. but as the public less and less believes in european institutions, it is also each time more difficult to convince the public that we need more europe to solve these problems.bg: we seem to be at the point where the numbers turn into political shifts, particularly domestically. we saw it again this weekend in france, but we have seen it over and over in many countries: in poland and in denmark and in switzerland and elsewhere, where the mood changes radically because of the numbers, although they are not very significant in absolute numbers. the prime minister of —ag: but, if i may, on these: i mean, what does a european see at home in a village where there are no migrants? what a european sees is, on television, every single day, a few months ago, opening the news every single day, a crowd coming, uncontrolled, moving from border to border, and the images on television were of hundreds or thousands of people moving. and the idea is that nobody is taking care of it — this is happening without any kind of management. and so their idea was, "they are coming to my village." so there was this completely false idea that europe was being invaded and our way of life is going to change, and everything will — and the problem is that if this had been properly managed, if people had been properly received, welcomed, sheltered at point of entry, screened at point of entry, and the moved by plane to different european countries, this would not have scared people. but, unfortunately, we have a lot of people scared, just because europe was not able to do the job properly.bg: but there are villages in germany with 300 inhabitants and 1,000 refugees. so, what's your position? how do you imagine these people reacting?ag: if there would be a proper management of the situation and the proper distribution of people all over europe, you would always have the percentage that i mentioned: one per each 2,000. it is because things are not properly managed that in the end we have situations that are totally impossible to live with, and of course if you have a village — in lebanon, there are many villages that have more syrians than lebanese; lebanon has been living with that. i'm not asking for the same to happen in europe, for all european villages to have more refugees than inhabitants. what i am asking is for europe to do the job properly, and to be able to organize itself to receive people as other countries in the world were forced to do in the past.bg: so, if you look at the global situation not only at europe — bg: yes! bg: if you look at the global situation, so, not only at europe, i know you can make a long list of countries that are not really stepping up, but i'm more interested in the other part — is there somebody who's doing the right thing?ag: well, 86 percent of the refugees in the world are in the developing world. and if you look at countries like ethiopia — ethiopia has received more than 600,000 refugees. all the borders in ethiopia are open. and they have, as a policy, they call the "people to people" policy that every refugee should be received. and they have south sudanese, they have sudanese, they have somalis. they have all the neighbors. they have eritreans. and, in general, african countries are extremely welcoming of refugees coming, and i would say that in the middle east and in asia, we have seen a tendency for borders to be open.now we see some problems with the syrian situation, as the syrian situation evolved into also a major security crisis, but the truth is that for a large period, all borders in the middle east were open. the truth is that for afghans, the borders of pakistan and iran were open for, at the time, six million afghans that came. so i would say that even today, the trend in the developing world has been for borders to be open. the trend in the developed world is for these questions to become more and more complex, especially when there is, in the public opinion, a mixture of discussions between refugee protections on one side and security questions — in my opinion, misinterpreted — on the other side.bg: we'll come back to that too, but you mentioned the cutting of funding and the vouchers from the world food programme. that reflects the general underfunding of the organizations working on these issues. now that the world seems to have woken up, are you getting more funding and more support, or it's still the same?ag: we are getting more support. i would say that we are coming close to the levels of last year. we were much worse during the summer. but that is clearly insufficient to address the needs of the people and address the needs of the countries that are supporting the people. and here we have a basic review of the criteria, the objectives, the priorities of development cooperation that is required.for instance, lebanon and jordan are middle-income countries. because they are middle-income countries, they cannot receive soft loans or grants from the world bank. now, today this doesn't make any sense, because they are providing a global public good. they have millions of refugees there, and to be honest, they are pillars of stability in the region, with all the difficulties they face, and the first line of defense of our collective security. so it doesn't make sense that these countries are not a first priority in development cooperation policies. and they are not. and not only do the refugees live in very dramatic circumstances inside those countries, but the local communities themselves are suffering, because salaries went down, because there are more unemployed, because prices and rents went up. and, of course, if you look at today's situation of the indicators in these countries, it is clear that, especially their poor groups of the population, are living worse and worse because of the crisis they are facing.bg: who should be providing this support? country by country, international organizations, the european union? who should be coming up with this support?ag: we need to join all efforts. it's clear that bilateral cooperation is essential. it's clear that multilateral cooperation is essential. it's clear that international financial institutions should have flexibility in order to be able to invest more massively in support to these countries. we need to combine all the instruments and to understand that today, in protracted situations, at a certain moment, that it doesn't make sense anymore to make a distinction between humanitarian aid and development aid or development processes. because you are talking about children in school, you are talking about health, you are talking about infrastructure that is overcrowded. you are talking about things that require a long-term perspective, a development perspective and not only an emergency humanitarian aid perspective.bg: i would like your comment on something that was in newspapers this morning. it is a statement made by the current front-runner for the republican nomination for us president, donald trump. yesterday, he said this. no, listen to this. it's interesting. i quote: "i am calling for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the us, until our country's representatives can figure out what's going on." how do you react to that?ag: well, it's not only donald trump. we have seen several people around the world with political responsibility saying, for instance, that muslims refugees should not be received. and the reason why they say this is because they think that by doing or saying this, they are protecting the security of their countries. now, i've been in government. i am very keen on the need for governments to protect the security of their countries and their people. but if you say, like that, in the us or in any european country, "we are going to close our doors to muslim refugees," what you are saying is the best possible help for the propaganda of terrorist organizations. because what you are saying — what you are saying will be heard by all the muslims in your own country, and it will pave the way for the recruitment and the mechanisms that, through technology, daesh and al-nusra, al-qaeda, and all those other groups are today penetrating in our societies. and it's just telling them, "you are right, we are against you." so obviously, this is creating in societies that are all multiethnic, multi-religious, multicultural, this is creating a situation in which, really, it is much easier for the propaganda of these terrorist organizations to be effective in recruiting people for terror acts within the countries where these kinds of sentences are expressed.bg: have the recent attacks in paris and the reactions to them made your job more difficult?ag: undoubtedly.bg: in what sense?ag: in the sense that, i mean, for many people the first reaction in relation to these kinds of terrorist attacks is: close all borders — not understanding that the terrorist problem in europe is largely homegrown. we have thousands and thousands of european fighters in syria and in iraq, so this is not something that you solve by just not allowing syrians to come in. and i must say, i am convinced that the passport that appeared, i believe, was put by the person who has blown —bg: — himself up, yeah.ag: [i believe] it was on purpose, because part of the strategies of daesh is against refugees, because they see refugees as people that should be with the caliphate and are fleeing to the crusaders. and i think that is part of daesh's strategy to make europe react, closing its doors to muslim refugees and having an hostility towards muslims inside europe, exactly to facilitate daesh's work.and my deep belief is that it was not the refugee movement that triggered terrorism. i think, as i said, essentially terrorism in europe is today a homegrown movement in relation to the global situation that we are facing, and what we need is exactly to prove these groups wrong, by welcoming and integrating effectively those that are coming from that part of the world.and another thing that i believe is that to a large extent, what we are today paying for in europe is the failures of integration models that didn't work in the '60s, in the '70s, in the '80s, in relation to big migration flows that took place at that time and generated what is today in many of the people, for instance, of the second generation of communities, a situation of feeling marginalized, having no jobs, having improper education, living in some of the neighborhoods that are not adequately provided by public infrastructure. and this kind of uneasiness, sometimes even anger, that exists in this second generation is largely due to the failure of integration policies, to the failure of what should have been a much stronger investment in creating the conditions for people to live together and respect each other. for me it is clear. for me it is clear that all societies will be multiethnic, multicultural, multi-religious in the future. to try to avoid it is, in my opinion, impossible. and for me it's a good thing that they will be like that, but i also recognize that, for that to work properly, you need a huge investment in the social cohesion of your own societies. and europe, to a large extent, failed in that investment in the past few decades.bg: question: you are stepping down from your job at the end of the year, after 10 years. if you look back at 2005, when you entered that office for the first time, what do you see?ag: well, look: in 2005, we were helping one million people go back home in safety and dignity, because conflicts had ended. last year, we helped 124,000. in 2005, we had about 38 million people displaced by conflict in the world. today, we have more than 60 million. at that time, we had had, recently, some conflicts that were solved. now, we see a multiplication of new conflicts and the old conflicts never died: afghanistan, somalia, democratic republic of congo. it is clear that the world today is much more dangerous than it was. it is clear that the capacity of the international community to prevent conflicts and to timely solve them, is, unfortunately, much worse than what it was 10 years ago. there are no clear power relations in the world, no global governance mechanisms that work, which means that we live in a situation where impunity and unpredictability tend to prevail, and that means that more and more people suffer, namely those that are displaced by conflicts.bg: it's a tradition in american politics that when a president leaves the oval office for the last time, he leaves a handwritten note on the desk for his successor that walks in a couple of hours later. if you had to write such a note to your successor, filippo grandi, what would you write?ag: well, i don't think i would write any message. you know, one of the terrible things when one leaves an office is to try to become the backseat driver, always telling the new one what to do. so that, i will not do. if i had to say something to him, it would be, "be yourself, and do your best."bg: commissioner, thank you for the job you do. thank you for coming to ted. <title = "Governments don't understand cyber warfare. We need hackers">
<tags = "['Internet', 'Surveillance', 'activism', 'communication', 'computers', 'data', 'future', 'government', 'military', 'policy', 'security', 'technology', 'terrorism', 'violence', 'war', 'web']">
<occupation = "Security researcher ">
in 2008, burhan hassan, age 17, boarded a flight from minneapolis to the horn of africa. and while burhan was the youngest recruit, he was not alone. al-shabaab managed to recruit over two dozen young men in their late teens and early 20s with a heavy presence on social media platforms like facebook. with the internet and other technologies, they've changed our everyday lives, but they've also changed recruitment, radicalization and the front lines of conflict today.what about the links connecting twitter, google and protesters fighting for democracy? these numbers represent google's public dns servers, effectively the only digital border crossing protesters had and could use to communicate with each other, to reach the outside world and to spread viral awareness of what was happening in their own country.today, conflict is essentially borderless. if there are bounds to conflict today, they're bound by digital, not physical geography. and under all this is a vacuum of power where non-state actors, individuals and private organizations have the advantage over slow, outdated military and intelligence agencies. and this is because, in the digital age of conflict, there exists a feedback loop where new technologies, platforms like the ones i mentioned, and more disruptive ones, can be adapted, learned, and deployed by individuals and organizations faster than governments can react.to understand the pace of our own government thinking on this, i like to turn to something aptly named the worldwide threat assessment, where every year the director of national intelligence in the us looks at the global threat landscape, and he says, "these are the threats, these are the details, and this is how we rank them." in 2007, there was absolutely no mention of cyber security. it took until 2011, when it came at the end, where other things, like west african drug trafficking, took precedence. in 2012, it crept up, still behind things like terrorism and proliferation. in 2013, it became the top threat, in 2014 and for the foreseeable future.what things like that show us is that there is a fundamental inability today on the part of governments to adapt and learn in digital conflict, where conflict can be immaterial, borderless, often wholly untraceable. and conflict isn't just online to offline, as we see with terrorist radicalization, but it goes the other way as well.we all know the horrible events that unfolded in paris this year with the charlie hebdo terrorist attacks. what an individual hacker or a small group of anonymous individuals did was enter those social media conversations that so many of us took part in. #jesuischarlie. on facebook, on twitter, on google, all sorts of places where millions of people, myself included, were talking about the events and saw images like this, the emotional, poignant image of a baby with "je suis charlie" on its wrist. and this turned into a weapon. what the hackers did was weaponize this image, where unsuspecting victims, like all of us in those conversations, saw this image, downloaded it but it was embedded with malware. and so when you downloaded this image, it hacked your system. it took six days to deploy a global malware campaign. the divide between physical and digital domains today ceases to exist, where we have offline attacks like those in paris appropriated for online hacks.and it goes the other way as well, with recruitment. we see online radicalization of teens, who can then be deployed globally for offline terrorist attacks.with all of this, we see that there's a new 21st century battle brewing, and governments don't necessarily take a part.so in another case, anonymous vs. los zetas. in early september 2011 in mexico, los zetas, one of the most powerful drug cartels, hung two bloggers with a sign that said, "this is what will happen to all internet busybodies." a week later, they beheaded a young girl. they severed her head, put it on top of her computer with a similar note. and taking the digital counteroffensive because governments couldn't even understand what was going on or act, anonymous, a group we might not associate as the most positive force in the world, took action, not in cyber attacks, but threatening information to be free. on social media, they said, "we will release information that ties prosecutors and governors to corrupt drug deals with the cartel." and escalating that conflict, los zetas said, "we will kill 10 people for every bit of information you release." and so it ended there because it would become too gruesome to continue. but what was powerful about this was that anonymous individuals, not federal policia, not military, not politicians, could strike fear deep into the heart of one of the most powerful, violent organizations in the world. and so we live in an era that lacks the clarity of the past in conflict, in who we're fighting, in the motivations behind attacks, in the tools and techniques used, and how quickly they evolve. and the question still remains: what can individuals, organizations and governments do?for answers to these questions, it starts with individuals, and i think peer-to-peer security is the answer. those people in relationships that bought over teens online, we can do that with peer-to-peer security. individuals have more power than ever before to affect national and international security. and we can create those positive peer-to-peer relationships on and offline, we can support and educate the next generation of hackers, like myself, instead of saying, "you can either be a criminal or join the nsa." that matters today. and it's not just individuals — it's organizations, corporations even. they have an advantage to act across more borders, more effectively and more rapidly than governments can, and there's a set of real incentives there. it's profitable and valuable to be seen as trustworthy in the digital age, and will only be more so in future generations to come.but we still can't ignore government, because that's who we turn to for collective action to keep us safe and secure. but we see where that's gotten us so far, where there's an inability to adapt and learn in digital conflict, where at the highest levels of leadership, the director of the cia, secretary of defense, they say, "cyber pearl harbor will happen." "cyber 9/11 is imminent." but this only makes us more fearful, not more secure. by banning encryption in favor of mass surveillance and mass hacking, sure, gchq and the nsa can spy on you. but that doesn't mean that they're the only ones that can. capabilities are cheap, even free. technical ability is rising around the world, and individuals and small groups have the advantage. so today it might just be the nsa and gchq, but who's to say that the chinese can't find that backdoor? or in another generation, some kid in his basement in estonia?and so i would say that it's not what governments can do, it's that they can't. governments today need to give up power and control in order to help make us more secure. giving up mass surveillance and hacking and instead fixing those backdoors means that, yeah, they can't spy on us, but neither can the chinese or that hacker in estonia a generation from now. and government support for technologies like tor and bitcoin mean giving up control, but it means that developers, translators, anybody with an internet connection, in countries like cuba, iran and china, can sell their skills, their products, in the global marketplace, but more importantly sell their ideas, show us what's happening in their own countries.and so it should be not fearful, it should be inspiring to the same governments that fought for civil rights, free speech and democracy in the great wars of the last century, that today, for the first time in human history, we have a technical opportunity to make billions of people safer around the world that we've never had before in human history. it should be inspiring. <title = "An underwater art museum, teeming with life">
<tags = "['art', 'creativity', 'design', 'ecology', 'entertainment', 'fish', 'life', 'mission blue', 'nature', 'oceans', 'science and art', 'water']">
<occupation = "Sculptor">
ten years ago, i had my first exhibition here. i had no idea if it would work or was at all possible, but with a few small steps and a very steep learning curve, i made my first sculpture, called "the lost correspondent." teaming up with a marine biologist and a local dive center, i submerged the work off the coast of grenada, in an area decimated by hurricane ivan. and then this incredible thing happened. it transformed. one sculpture became two. two quickly became 26. and before i knew it, we had the world's first underwater sculpture park.in 2009, i moved to mexico and started by casting local fisherman. this grew to a small community, to almost an entire movement of people in defense of the sea. and then finally, to an underwater museum, with over 500 living sculptures. gardening, it seems, is not just for greenhouses. we've since scaled up the designs: "ocean atlas," in the bahamas, rising 16 feet up to the surface and weighing over 40 tons, to now currently in lanzarote, where i'm making an underwater botanical garden, the first of its kind in the atlantic ocean.each project, we use materials and designs that help encourage life; a long-lasting ph-neutral cement provides a stable and permanent platform. it is textured to allow coral polyps to attach. we position them down current from natural reefs so that after spawning, there's areas for them to settle. the formations are all configured so that they aggregate fish on a really large scale. even this vw beetle has an internal living habitat to encourage crustaceans such as lobsters and sea urchins.so why exhibit my work in the ocean? because honestly, it's really not easy. when you're in the middle of the sea under a hundred-foot crane, trying to lower eight tons down to the sea floor, you start to wonder whether i shouldn't have taken up watercolor painting instead. but in the end, the results always blow my mind.(music)the ocean is the most incredible exhibition space an artist could ever wish for. you have amazing lighting effects changing by the hour, explosions of sand covering the sculptures in a cloud of mystery, a unique timeless quality and the procession of inquisitive visitors, each lending their own special touch to the site.(music)but over the years, i've realized that the greatest thing about what we do, the really humbling thing about the work, is that as soon as we submerge the sculptures, they're not ours anymore, because as soon as we sink them, the sculptures, they belong to the sea. as new reefs form, a new world literally starts to evolve, a world that continuously amazes me. it's a bit of a cliché, but nothing man-made can ever match the imagination of nature.sponges look like veins across the faces. staghorn coral morphs the form. fireworms scrawl white lines as they feed. tunicates explode from the faces. sea urchins crawl across the bodies feeding at night. coralline algae applies a kind of purple paint. the deepest red i've ever seen in my life lives underwater. gorgonian fans oscillate with the waves. purple sponges breathe water like air. and grey angelfish glide silently overhead.and the amazing response we've had to these works tells me that we've managed to plug into something really primal, because it seems that these images translate across the world, and that's made me focus on my responsibility as an artist and about what i'm trying to achieve. i'm standing here today on this boat in the middle of the ocean, and this couldn't be a better place to talk about the really, really important effect of my work. because as we all know, our reefs are dying, and our oceans are in trouble.so here's the thing: the most used, searched and shared image of all my work thus far is this. and i think this is for a reason, or at least i hope it is. what i really hope is that people are beginning to understand that when we think of the environment and the destruction of nature, that we need to start thinking about our oceans, too.since building these sites, we've seen some phenomenal and unexpected results. besides creating over 800 square meters of new habitats and living reef, visitors to the marine park in cancun now divide half their time between the museum and the natural reefs, providing significant rest for natural, overstressed areas. visitors to "ocean atlas" in the bahamas highlighted a leak from a nearby oil refinery. the subsequent international media forced the local government to pledge 10 million dollars in coastal cleanups. the sculpture park in grenada was instrumental in the government designating a spot — a marine-protected area. entrance fees to the park now help fund park rangers to manage tourism and fishing quotas. the site was actually listed as a "wonder of the world" by national geographic.so why are we all here today in this room? what do we all have in common? i think we all share a fear that we don't protect our oceans enough. and one way of thinking about this is that we don't regard our oceans as sacred, and we should. when we see incredible places — like the himalayas or the la sagrada família, or the mona lisa, even — when we see these incredible places and things, we understand their importance. we call them sacred, and we do our best to cherish them, to protect them and to keep them safe. but in order to do that, we are the ones that have to assign that value; otherwise, it will be desecrated by someone who doesn't understand that value.so i want to finish up tonight by talking about sacred things. when we were naming the site in cancun, we named it a museum for a very important and simple reason: museums are places of preservation, of conservation and of education. they're places where we keep objects of great value to us, where we simply treasure them for them being themselves. if someone was to throw an egg at the sistine chapel, we'd all go crazy. if someone wanted to build a seven-star hotel at the bottom of the grand canyon, then we would laugh them out of arizona. yet every day we dredge, pollute and overfish our oceans. and i think it's easier for us to do that, because when we see the ocean, we don't see the havoc we're wreaking. because for most people, the ocean is like this. and it's really hard to think of something that's just so plain and so enormous, as fragile. it's simply too massive, too vast, too endless. and what do you see here? i think most people actually look past to the horizon. so i think there's a real danger that we never really see the sea, and if we don't really see it, if it doesn't have its own iconography, if we miss its majesty, then there's a big danger that we take it for granted.cancun is famous for spring break, tequila and foam parties. and its waters are where frat boys can ride around on jet skis and banana boats. but because of our work there, there's now a little corner of cancun that is simply precious for being itself. and we don't want to stop in grenada, in cancun or the bahamas. just last month, i installed these four horsemen of the apocalypse in the thames river, in central london, right in front of the houses of parliament, putting a stark message about climate change in front of the people that have the power to help change things.because for me, this is just the beginning of the mission. we want to team up with other inventors, creators, philanthropists, educators, biologists, to see better futures for our oceans. and we want to see beyond sculpture, beyond art, even.say you're a 14-year-old kid from the city, and you've never seen the ocean. and instead of getting taken to the natural history museum or an aquarium, you get taken out to the ocean, to an underwater noah's ark, which you can access through a dry-glass viewing tunnel, where you can see all the wildlife of the land be colonized by the wildlife of the ocean. clearly, it would blow your mind.so let's think big and let's think deep. who knows where our imagination and willpower can lead us? i hope that by bringing our art into the ocean, that not only do we take advantage of amazing creativity and visual impact of the setting, but that we are also giving something back, and by encouraging new environments to thrive, and in some way opening up a new — or maybe it's a really old way of seeing the seas: as delicate, precious places, worthy of our protection.our oceans are sacred.thank you. <title = "What makes a good life? Lessons from the longest study on happiness">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'aging', 'data', 'friendship', 'happiness', 'health', 'humanity', 'life', 'relationships', 'society', 'time', 'work-life balance']">
<occupation = "Psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and Zen priest">
what keeps us healthy and happy as we go through life? if you were going to invest now in your future best self, where would you put your time and your energy? there was a recent survey of millennials asking them what their most important life goals were, and over 80 percent said that a major life goal for them was to get rich. and another 50 percent of those same young adults said that another major life goal was to become famous. and we're constantly told to lean in to work, to push harder and achieve more. we're given the impression that these are the things that we need to go after in order to have a good life. pictures of entire lives, of the choices that people make and how those choices work out for them, those pictures are almost impossible to get. most of what we know about human life we know from asking people to remember the past, and as we know, hindsight is anything but 20/20. we forget vast amounts of what happens to us in life, and sometimes memory is downright creative.but what if we could watch entire lives as they unfold through time? what if we could study people from the time that they were teenagers all the way into old age to see what really keeps people happy and healthy?we did that. the harvard study of adult development may be the longest study of adult life that's ever been done. for 75 years, we've tracked the lives of 724 men, year after year, asking about their work, their home lives, their health, and of course asking all along the way without knowing how their life stories were going to turn out.studies like this are exceedingly rare. almost all projects of this kind fall apart within a decade because too many people drop out of the study, or funding for the research dries up, or the researchers get distracted, or they die, and nobody moves the ball further down the field. but through a combination of luck and the persistence of several generations of researchers, this study has survived. about 60 of our original 724 men are still alive, still participating in the study, most of them in their 90s. and we are now beginning to study the more than 2,000 children of these men. and i'm the fourth director of the study.since 1938, we've tracked the lives of two groups of men. the first group started in the study when they were sophomores at harvard college. they all finished college during world war ii, and then most went off to serve in the war. and the second group that we've followed was a group of boys from boston's poorest neighborhoods, boys who were chosen for the study specifically because they were from some of the most troubled and disadvantaged families in the boston of the 1930s. most lived in tenements, many without hot and cold running water.when they entered the study, all of these teenagers were interviewed. they were given medical exams. we went to their homes and we interviewed their parents. and then these teenagers grew up into adults who entered all walks of life. they became factory workers and lawyers and bricklayers and doctors, one president of the united states. some developed alcoholism. a few developed schizophrenia. some climbed the social ladder from the bottom all the way to the very top, and some made that journey in the opposite direction.the founders of this study would never in their wildest dreams have imagined that i would be standing here today, 75 years later, telling you that the study still continues. every two years, our patient and dedicated research staff calls up our men and asks them if we can send them yet one more set of questions about their lives.many of the inner city boston men ask us, "why do you keep wanting to study me? my life just isn't that interesting." the harvard men never ask that question. to get the clearest picture of these lives, we don't just send them questionnaires. we interview them in their living rooms. we get their medical records from their doctors. we draw their blood, we scan their brains, we talk to their children. we videotape them talking with their wives about their deepest concerns. and when, about a decade ago, we finally asked the wives if they would join us as members of the study, many of the women said, "you know, it's about time." so what have we learned? what are the lessons that come from the tens of thousands of pages of information that we've generated on these lives? well, the lessons aren't about wealth or fame or working harder and harder. the clearest message that we get from this 75-year study is this: good relationships keep us happier and healthier. period.we've learned three big lessons about relationships. the first is that social connections are really good for us, and that loneliness kills. it turns out that people who are more socially connected to family, to friends, to community, are happier, they're physically healthier, and they live longer than people who are less well connected. and the experience of loneliness turns out to be toxic. people who are more isolated than they want to be from others find that they are less happy, their health declines earlier in midlife, their brain functioning declines sooner and they live shorter lives than people who are not lonely. and the sad fact is that at any given time, more than one in five americans will report that they're lonely.and we know that you can be lonely in a crowd and you can be lonely in a marriage, so the second big lesson that we learned is that it's not just the number of friends you have, and it's not whether or not you're in a committed relationship, but it's the quality of your close relationships that matters. it turns out that living in the midst of conflict is really bad for our health. high-conflict marriages, for example, without much affection, turn out to be very bad for our health, perhaps worse than getting divorced. and living in the midst of good, warm relationships is protective.once we had followed our men all the way into their 80s, we wanted to look back at them at midlife and to see if we could predict who was going to grow into a happy, healthy octogenarian and who wasn't. and when we gathered together everything we knew about them at age 50, it wasn't their middle age cholesterol levels that predicted how they were going to grow old. it was how satisfied they were in their relationships. the people who were the most satisfied in their relationships at age 50 were the healthiest at age 80. and good, close relationships seem to buffer us from some of the slings and arrows of getting old. our most happily partnered men and women reported, in their 80s, that on the days when they had more physical pain, their mood stayed just as happy. but the people who were in unhappy relationships, on the days when they reported more physical pain, it was magnified by more emotional pain.and the third big lesson that we learned about relationships and our health is that good relationships don't just protect our bodies, they protect our brains. it turns out that being in a securely attached relationship to another person in your 80s is protective, that the people who are in relationships where they really feel they can count on the other person in times of need, those people's memories stay sharper longer. and the people in relationships where they feel they really can't count on the other one, those are the people who experience earlier memory decline. and those good relationships, they don't have to be smooth all the time. some of our octogenarian couples could bicker with each other day in and day out, but as long as they felt that they could really count on the other when the going got tough, those arguments didn't take a toll on their memories.so this message, that good, close relationships are good for our health and well-being, this is wisdom that's as old as the hills. why is this so hard to get and so easy to ignore? well, we're human. what we'd really like is a quick fix, something we can get that'll make our lives good and keep them that way. relationships are messy and they're complicated and the hard work of tending to family and friends, it's not sexy or glamorous. it's also lifelong. it never ends. the people in our 75-year study who were the happiest in retirement were the people who had actively worked to replace workmates with new playmates. just like the millennials in that recent survey, many of our men when they were starting out as young adults really believed that fame and wealth and high achievement were what they needed to go after to have a good life. but over and over, over these 75 years, our study has shown that the people who fared the best were the people who leaned in to relationships, with family, with friends, with community.so what about you? let's say you're 25, or you're 40, or you're 60. what might leaning in to relationships even look like?well, the possibilities are practically endless. it might be something as simple as replacing screen time with people time or livening up a stale relationship by doing something new together, long walks or date nights, or reaching out to that family member who you haven't spoken to in years, because those all-too-common family feuds take a terrible toll on the people who hold the grudges.i'd like to close with a quote from mark twain. more than a century ago, he was looking back on his life, and he wrote this: "there isn't time, so brief is life, for bickerings, apologies, heartburnings, callings to account. there is only time for loving, and but an instant, so to speak, for that."the good life is built with good relationships.thank you. <title = "Have we reached the end of physics?">
<tags = "['big bang', 'complexity', 'dark matter', 'exploration', 'future', 'innovation', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'space', 'technology', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Particle physicist">
a hundred years ago this month, a 36-year-old albert einstein stood up in front of the prussian academy of sciences in berlin to present a radical new theory of space, time and gravity: the general theory of relativity.general relativity is unquestionably einstein's masterpiece, a theory which reveals the workings of the universe at the grandest scales, capturing in one beautiful line of algebra everything from why apples fall from trees to the beginning of time and space.1915 must have been an exciting year to be a physicist. two new ideas were turning the subject on its head. one was einstein's theory of relativity, the other was arguably even more revolutionary: quantum mechanics, a mind-meltingly strange yet stunningly successful new way of understanding the microworld, the world of atoms and particles.over the last century, these two ideas have utterly transformed our understanding of the universe. it's thanks to relativity and quantum mechanics that we've learned what the universe is made from, how it began and how it continues to evolve. a hundred years on, we now find ourselves at another turning point in physics, but what's at stake now is rather different. the next few years may tell us whether we'll be able to continue to increase our understanding of nature, or whether maybe for the first time in the history of science, we could be facing questions that we cannot answer, not because we don't have the brains or technology, but because the laws of physics themselves forbid it.this is the essential problem: the universe is far, far too interesting. relativity and quantum mechanics appear to suggest that the universe should be a boring place. it should be dark, lethal and lifeless. but when we look around us, we see we live in a universe full of interesting stuff, full of stars, planets, trees, squirrels. the question is, ultimately, why does all this interesting stuff exist? why is there something rather than nothing? this contradiction is the most pressing problem in fundamental physics, and in the next few years, we may find out whether we'll ever be able to solve it.at the heart of this problem are two numbers, two extremely dangerous numbers. these are properties of the universe that we can measure, and they're extremely dangerous because if they were different, even by a tiny bit, then the universe as we know it would not exist. the first of these numbers is associated with the discovery that was made a few kilometers from this hall, at cern, home of this machine, the largest scientific device ever built by the human race, the large hadron collider. the lhc whizzes subatomic particles around a 27-kilometer ring, getting them closer and closer to the speed of light before smashing them into each other inside gigantic particle detectors. on july 4, 2012, physicists at cern announced to the world that they'd spotted a new fundamental particle being created at the violent collisions at the lhc: the higgs boson.now, if you followed the news at the time, you'll have seen a lot of physicists getting very excited indeed, and you'd be forgiven for thinking we get that way every time we discover a new particle. well, that is kind of true, but the higgs boson is particularly special. we all got so excited because finding the higgs proves the existence of a cosmic energy field. now, you may have trouble imagining an energy field, but we've all experienced one. if you've ever held a magnet close to a piece of metal and felt a force pulling across that gap, then you've felt the effect of a field. and the higgs field is a little bit like a magnetic field, except it has a constant value everywhere. it's all around us right now. we can't see it or touch it, but if it wasn't there, we would not exist. the higgs field gives mass to the fundamental particles that we're made from. if it wasn't there, those particles would have no mass, and no atoms could form and there would be no us.but there is something deeply mysterious about the higgs field. relativity and quantum mechanics tell us that it has two natural settings, a bit like a light switch. it should either be off, so that it has a zero value everywhere in space, or it should be on so it has an absolutely enormous value. in both of these scenarios, atoms could not exist, and therefore all the other interesting stuff that we see around us in the universe would not exist. in reality, the higgs field is just slightly on, not zero but 10,000 trillion times weaker than its fully on value, a bit like a light switch that's got stuck just before the off position. and this value is crucial. if it were a tiny bit different, then there would be no physical structure in the universe.so this is the first of our dangerous numbers, the strength of the higgs field. theorists have spent decades trying to understand why it has this very peculiarly fine-tuned number, and they've come up with a number of possible explanations. they have sexy-sounding names like "supersymmetry" or "large extra dimensions." i'm not going to go into the details of these ideas now, but the key point is this: if any of them explained this weirdly fine-tuned value of the higgs field, then we should see new particles being created at the lhc along with the higgs boson. so far, though, we've not seen any sign of them.but there's actually an even worse example of this kind of fine-tuning of a dangerous number, and this time it comes from the other end of the scale, from studying the universe at vast distances. one of the most important consequences of einstein's general theory of relativity was the discovery that the universe began as a rapid expansion of space and time 13.8 billion years ago, the big bang. now, according to early versions of the big bang theory, the universe has been expanding ever since with gravity gradually putting the brakes on that expansion. but in 1998, astronomers made the stunning discovery that the expansion of the universe is actually speeding up. the universe is getting bigger and bigger faster and faster driven by a mysterious repulsive force called dark energy.now, whenever you hear the word "dark" in physics, you should get very suspicious because it probably means we don't know what we're talking about. we don't know what dark energy is, but the best idea is that it's the energy of empty space itself, the energy of the vacuum. now, if you use good old quantum mechanics to work out how strong dark energy should be, you get an absolutely astonishing result. you find that dark energy should be 10 to the power of 120 times stronger than the value we observe from astronomy. that's one with 120 zeroes after it. this is a number so mind-bogglingly huge that it's impossible to get your head around. we often use the word "astronomical" when we're talking about big numbers. well, even that one won't do here. this number is bigger than any number in astronomy. it's a thousand trillion trillion trillion times bigger than the number of atoms in the entire universe.so that's a pretty bad prediction. in fact, it's been called the worst prediction in physics, and this is more than just a theoretical curiosity. if dark energy were anywhere near this strong, then the universe would have been torn apart, stars and galaxies could not form, and we would not be here. so this is the second of those dangerous numbers, the strength of dark energy, and explaining it requires an even more fantastic level of fine-tuning than we saw for the higgs field. but unlike the higgs field, this number has no known explanation.the hope was that a complete combination of einstein's general theory of relativity, which is the theory of the universe at grand scales, with quantum mechanics, the theory of the universe at small scales, might provide a solution. einstein himself spent most of his later years on a futile search for a unified theory of physics, and physicists have kept at it ever since.one of the most promising candidates for a unified theory is string theory, and the essential idea is, if you could zoom in on the fundamental particles that make up our world, you'd see actually that they're not particles at all, but tiny vibrating strings of energy, with each frequency of vibration corresponding to a different particle, a bit like musical notes on a guitar string.so it's a rather elegant, almost poetic way of looking at the world, but it has one catastrophic problem. it turns out that string theory isn't one theory at all, but a whole collection of theories. it's been estimated, in fact, that there are 10 to the 500 different versions of string theory. each one would describe a different universe with different laws of physics. now, critics say this makes string theory unscientific. you can't disprove the theory. but others actually turned this on its head and said, well, maybe this apparent failure is string theory's greatest triumph. what if all of these 10 to the 500 different possible universes actually exist out there somewhere in some grand multiverse? suddenly we can understand the weirdly fine-tuned values of these two dangerous numbers. in most of the multiverse, dark energy is so strong that the universe gets torn apart, or the higgs field is so weak that no atoms can form. we live in one of the places in the multiverse where the two numbers are just right. we live in a goldilocks universe.now, this idea is extremely controversial, and it's easy to see why. if we follow this line of thinking, then we will never be able to answer the question, "why is there something rather than nothing?" in most of the multiverse, there is nothing, and we live in one of the few places where the laws of physics allow there to be something. even worse, we can't test the idea of the multiverse. we can't access these other universes, so there's no way of knowing whether they're there or not.so we're in an extremely frustrating position. that doesn't mean the multiverse doesn't exist. there are other planets, other stars, other galaxies, so why not other universes? the problem is, it's unlikely we'll ever know for sure. now, the idea of the multiverse has been around for a while, but in the last few years, we've started to get the first solid hints that this line of reasoning may get born out. despite high hopes for the first run of the lhc, what we were looking for there — we were looking for new theories of physics: supersymmetry or large extra dimensions that could explain this weirdly fine-tuned value of the higgs field. but despite high hopes, the lhc revealed a barren subatomic wilderness populated only by a lonely higgs boson. my experiment published paper after paper where we glumly had to conclude that we saw no signs of new physics.the stakes now could not be higher. this summer, the lhc began its second phase of operation with an energy almost double what we achieved in the first run. what particle physicists are all desperately hoping for are signs of new particles, micro black holes, or maybe something totally unexpected emerging from the violent collisions at the large hadron collider. if so, then we can continue this long journey that began 100 years ago with albert einstein towards an ever deeper understanding of the laws of nature.but if, in two or three years' time, when the lhc switches off again for a second long shutdown, we've found nothing but the higgs boson, then we may be entering a new era in physics: an era where there are weird features of the universe that we cannot explain; an era where we have hints that we live in a multiverse that lies frustratingly forever beyond our reach; an era where we will never be able to answer the question, "why is there something rather than nothing?"thank you. bruno giussani: harry, even if you just said the science may not have some answers, i would like to ask you a couple of questions, and the first is: building something like the lhc is a generational project. i just mentioned, introducing you, that we live in a short-term world. how do you think so long term, projecting yourself out a generation when building something like this?harry cliff: i was very lucky that i joined the experiment i work on at the lhc in 2008, just as we were switching on, and there are people in my research group who have been working on it for three decades, their entire careers on one machine. so i think the first conversations about the lhc were in 1976, and you start planning the machine without the technology that you know you're going to need to be able to build it. so the computing power did not exist in the early '90s when design work began in earnest. one of the big detectors which record these collisions, they didn't think there was technology that could withstand the radiation that would be created in the lhc, so there was basically a lump of lead in the middle of this object with some detectors around the outside, but subsequently we have developed technology. so you have to rely on people's ingenuity, that they will solve the problems, but it may be a decade or more down the line.bg: china just announced two or three weeks ago that they intend to build a supercollider twice the size of the lhc. i was wondering how you and your colleagues welcome the news.hc: size isn't everything, bruno. bg: i'm sure. i'm sure. it sounds funny for a particle physicist to say that. but i mean, seriously, it's great news. so building a machine like the lhc requires countries from all over the world to pool their resources. no one nation can afford to build a machine this large, apart from maybe china, because they can mobilize huge amounts of resources, manpower and money to build machines like this. so it's only a good thing. what they're really planning to do is to build a machine that will study the higgs boson in detail and could give us some clues as to whether these new ideas, like supersymmetry, are really out there, so it's great news for physics, i think.bg: harry, thank you. hc: thank you very much. <title = "How to use data to make a hit TV show">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'algorithm', 'brain', 'data', 'decision-making', 'intelligence', 'media', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Data scientist">
roy price is a man that most of you have probably never heard about, even though he may have been responsible for 22 somewhat mediocre minutes of your life on april 19, 2013. he may have also been responsible for 22 very entertaining minutes, but not very many of you. and all of that goes back to a decision that roy had to make about three years ago.so you see, roy price is a senior executive with amazon studios. that's the tv production company of amazon. he's 47 years old, slim, spiky hair, describes himself on twitter as "movies, tv, technology, tacos." and roy price has a very responsible job, because it's his responsibility to pick the shows, the original content that amazon is going to make. and of course that's a highly competitive space. i mean, there are so many tv shows already out there, that roy can't just choose any show. he has to find shows that are really, really great. so in other words, he has to find shows that are on the very right end of this curve here.so this curve here is the rating distribution of about 2,500 tv shows on the website imdb, and the rating goes from one to 10, and the height here shows you how many shows get that rating. so if your show gets a rating of nine points or higher, that's a winner. then you have a top two percent show. that's shows like "breaking bad," "game of thrones," "the wire," so all of these shows that are addictive, whereafter you've watched a season, your brain is basically like, "where can i get more of these episodes?" that kind of show. on the left side, just for clarity, here on that end, you have a show called "toddlers and tiaras" — — which should tell you enough about what's going on on that end of the curve.now, roy price is not worried about getting on the left end of the curve, because i think you would have to have some serious brainpower to undercut "toddlers and tiaras." so what he's worried about is this middle bulge here, the bulge of average tv, you know, those shows that aren't really good or really bad, they don't really get you excited. so he needs to make sure that he's really on the right end of this.so the pressure is on, and of course it's also the first time that amazon is even doing something like this, so roy price does not want to take any chances. he wants to engineer success. he needs a guaranteed success, and so what he does is, he holds a competition.so he takes a bunch of ideas for tv shows, and from those ideas, through an evaluation, they select eight candidates for tv shows, and then he just makes the first episode of each one of these shows and puts them online for free for everyone to watch. and so when amazon is giving out free stuff, you're going to take it, right? so millions of viewers are watching those episodes.what they don't realize is that, while they're watching their shows, actually, they are being watched. they are being watched by roy price and his team, who record everything. they record when somebody presses play, when somebody presses pause, what parts they skip, what parts they watch again. so they collect millions of data points, because they want to have those data points to then decide which show they should make. and sure enough, so they collect all the data, they do all the data crunching, and an answer emerges, and the answer is, "amazon should do a sitcom about four republican us senators." they did that show.so does anyone know the name of the show? (audience: "alpha house.") yes, "alpha house," but it seems like not too many of you here remember that show, actually, because it didn't turn out that great. it's actually just an average show, actually — literally, in fact, because the average of this curve here is at 7.4, and "alpha house" lands at 7.5, so a slightly above average show, but certainly not what roy price and his team were aiming for. meanwhile, however, at about the same time, at another company, another executive did manage to land a top show using data analysis, and his name is ted, ted sarandos, who is the chief content officer of netflix, and just like roy, he's on a constant mission to find that great tv show, and he uses data as well to do that, except he does it a little bit differently. so instead of holding a competition, what he did — and his team of course — was they looked at all the data they already had about netflix viewers, you know, the ratings they give their shows, the viewing histories, what shows people like, and so on. and then they use that data to discover all of these little bits and pieces about the audience: what kinds of shows they like, what kind of producers, what kind of actors. and once they had all of these pieces together, they took a leap of faith, and they decided to license not a sitcom about four senators but a drama series about a single senator. you guys know the show? yes, "house of cards," and netflix of course, nailed it with that show, at least for the first two seasons.  "house of cards" gets a 9.1 rating on this curve, so it's exactly where they wanted it to be.now, the question of course is, what happened here? so you have two very competitive, data-savvy companies. they connect all of these millions of data points, and then it works beautifully for one of them, and it doesn't work for the other one. so why? because logic kind of tells you that this should be working all the time. i mean, if you're collecting millions of data points on a decision you're going to make, then you should be able to make a pretty good decision. you have 200 years of statistics to rely on. you're amplifying it with very powerful computers. the least you could expect is good tv, right?and if data analysis does not work that way, then it actually gets a little scary, because we live in a time where we're turning to data more and more to make very serious decisions that go far beyond tv. does anyone here know the company multi-health systems? no one. ok, that's good actually. ok, so multi-health systems is a software company, and i hope that nobody here in this room ever comes into contact with that software, because if you do, it means you're in prison. if someone here in the us is in prison, and they apply for parole, then it's very likely that data analysis software from that company will be used in determining whether to grant that parole. so it's the same principle as amazon and netflix, but now instead of deciding whether a tv show is going to be good or bad, you're deciding whether a person is going to be good or bad. and mediocre tv, 22 minutes, that can be pretty bad, but more years in prison, i guess, even worse.and unfortunately, there is actually some evidence that this data analysis, despite having lots of data, does not always produce optimum results. and that's not because a company like multi-health systems doesn't know what to do with data. even the most data-savvy companies get it wrong. yes, even google gets it wrong sometimes.in 2009, google announced that they were able, with data analysis, to predict outbreaks of influenza, the nasty kind of flu, by doing data analysis on their google searches. and it worked beautifully, and it made a big splash in the news, including the pinnacle of scientific success: a publication in the journal "nature." it worked beautifully for year after year after year, until one year it failed. and nobody could even tell exactly why. it just didn't work that year, and of course that again made big news, including now a retraction of a publication from the journal "nature." so even the most data-savvy companies, amazon and google, they sometimes get it wrong. and despite all those failures, data is moving rapidly into real-life decision-making — into the workplace, law enforcement, medicine. so we should better make sure that data is helping.now, personally i've seen a lot of this struggle with data myself, because i work in computational genetics, which is also a field where lots of very smart people are using unimaginable amounts of data to make pretty serious decisions like deciding on a cancer therapy or developing a drug. and over the years, i've noticed a sort of pattern or kind of rule, if you will, about the difference between successful decision-making with data and unsuccessful decision-making, and i find this a pattern worth sharing, and it goes something like this.so whenever you're solving a complex problem, you're doing essentially two things. the first one is, you take that problem apart into its bits and pieces so that you can deeply analyze those bits and pieces, and then of course you do the second part. you put all of these bits and pieces back together again to come to your conclusion. and sometimes you have to do it over again, but it's always those two things: taking apart and putting back together again.and now the crucial thing is that data and data analysis is only good for the first part. data and data analysis, no matter how powerful, can only help you taking a problem apart and understanding its pieces. it's not suited to put those pieces back together again and then to come to a conclusion. there's another tool that can do that, and we all have it, and that tool is the brain. if there's one thing a brain is good at, it's taking bits and pieces back together again, even when you have incomplete information, and coming to a good conclusion, especially if it's the brain of an expert.and that's why i believe that netflix was so successful, because they used data and brains where they belong in the process. they use data to first understand lots of pieces about their audience that they otherwise wouldn't have been able to understand at that depth, but then the decision to take all these bits and pieces and put them back together again and make a show like "house of cards," that was nowhere in the data. ted sarandos and his team made that decision to license that show, which also meant, by the way, that they were taking a pretty big personal risk with that decision. and amazon, on the other hand, they did it the wrong way around. they used data all the way to drive their decision-making, first when they held their competition of tv ideas, then when they selected "alpha house" to make as a show. which of course was a very safe decision for them, because they could always point at the data, saying, "this is what the data tells us." but it didn't lead to the exceptional results that they were hoping for.so data is of course a massively useful tool to make better decisions, but i believe that things go wrong when data is starting to drive those decisions. no matter how powerful, data is just a tool, and to keep that in mind, i find this device here quite useful. many of you will ... before there was data, this was the decision-making device to use. many of you will know this. this toy here is called the magic 8 ball, and it's really amazing, because if you have a decision to make, a yes or no question, all you have to do is you shake the ball, and then you get an answer — "most likely" — right here in this window in real time. i'll have it out later for tech demos. now, the thing is, of course — so i've made some decisions in my life where, in hindsight, i should have just listened to the ball. but, you know, of course, if you have the data available, you want to replace this with something much more sophisticated, like data analysis to come to a better decision. but that does not change the basic setup. so the ball may get smarter and smarter and smarter, but i believe it's still on us to make the decisions if we want to achieve something extraordinary, on the right end of the curve. and i find that a very encouraging message, in fact, that even in the face of huge amounts of data, it still pays off to make decisions, to be an expert in what you're doing and take risks. because in the end, it's not data, it's risks that will land you on the right end of the curve.thank you. <title = "How we'll find life on other planets">
<tags = "['Planets', 'TED Fellows', 'art', 'astrobiology', 'astronomy', 'children', 'computers', 'education', 'exploration', 'extraterrestrial life', 'future', 'life', 'space', 'technology', 'telescopes', 'universe', 'women']">
<occupation = "Astronomer, astrobiologist, actor, writer">
i am in search of another planet in the universe where life exists. i can't see this planet with my naked eyes or even with the most powerful telescopes we currently possess. but i know that it's there. and understanding contradictions that occur in nature will help us find it.on our planet, where there's water, there's life. so we look for planets that orbit at just the right distance from their stars. at this distance, shown in blue on this diagram for stars of different temperatures, planets could be warm enough for water to flow on their surfaces as lakes and oceans where life might reside. some astronomers focus their time and energy on finding planets at these distances from their stars. what i do picks up where their job ends. i model the possible climates of exoplanets. and here's why that's important: there are many factors besides distance from its star that control whether a planet can support life.take the planet venus. it's named after the roman goddess of love and beauty, because of its benign, ethereal appearance in the sky. but spacecraft measurements revealed a different story. the surface temperature is close to 900 degrees fahrenheit, 500 celsius. that's hot enough to melt lead. its thick atmosphere, not its distance from the sun, is the reason. it causes a greenhouse effect on steroids, trapping heat from the sun and scorching the planet's surface. the reality totally contradicted initial perceptions of this planet. from these lessons from our own solar system, we've learned that a planet's atmosphere is crucial to its climate and potential to host life.we don't know what the atmospheres of these planets are like because the planets are so small and dim compared to their stars and so far away from us. for example, one of the closest planets that could support surface water — it's called gliese 667 cc — such a glamorous name, right, nice phone number for a name — it's 23 light years away. so that's more than 100 trillion miles. trying to measure the atmospheric composition of an exoplanet passing in front of its host star is hard. it's like trying to see a fruit fly passing in front of a car's headlight. ok, now imagine that car is 100 trillion miles away, and you want to know the precise color of that fly.so i use computer models to calculate the kind of atmosphere a planet would need to have a suitable climate for water and life.here's an artist's concept of the planet kepler-62f, with the earth for reference. it's 1,200 light years away, and just 40 percent larger than earth. our nsf-funded work found that it could be warm enough for open water from many types of atmospheres and orientations of its orbit. so i'd like future telescopes to follow up on this planet to look for signs of life.ice on a planet's surface is also important for climate. ice absorbs longer, redder wavelengths of light, and reflects shorter, bluer light. that's why the iceberg in this photo looks so blue. the redder light from the sun is absorbed on its way through the ice. only the blue light makes it all the way to the bottom. then it gets reflected back to up to our eyes and we see blue ice. my models show that planets orbiting cooler stars could actually be warmer than planets orbiting hotter stars. there's another contradiction — that ice absorbs the longer wavelength light from cooler stars, and that light, that energy, heats the ice.using climate models to explore how these contradictions can affect planetary climate is vital to the search for life elsewhere.and it's no surprise that this is my specialty. i'm an african-american female astronomer and a classically trained actor who loves to wear makeup and read fashion magazines, so i am uniquely positioned to appreciate contradictions in nature — ... and how they can inform our search for the next planet where life exists.my organization, rising stargirls, teaches astronomy to middle-school girls of color, using theater, writing and visual art. that's another contradiction — science and art don't often go together, but interweaving them can help these girls bring their whole selves to what they learn, and maybe one day join the ranks of astronomers who are full of contradictions, and use their backgrounds to discover, once and for all, that we are truly not alone in the universe.thank you. <title = "4 ways we can avoid a catastrophic drought">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'design', 'engineering', 'environment', 'future', 'global issues', 'industrial design', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'population', 'public health', 'sustainability', 'urban planning', 'water']">
<occupation = "Civil and environmental engineer">
our grandparents' generation created an amazing system of canals and reservoirs that made it possible for people to live in places where there wasn't a lot of water. for example, during the great depression, they created the hoover dam, which in turn, created lake mead and made it possible for the cities of las vegas and phoenix and los angeles to provide water for people who lived in a really dry place.in the 20th century, we literally spent trillions of dollars building infrastructure to get water to our cities. in terms of economic development, it was a great investment. but in the last decade, we've seen the combined effects of climate change, population growth and competition for water resources threaten these vital lifelines and water resources.this figure shows you the change in the lake level of lake mead that happened in the last 15 years. you can see starting around the year 2000, the lake level started to drop. and it was dropping at such a rate that it would have left the drinking water intakes for las vegas high and dry. the city became so concerned about this that they recently constructed a new drinking water intake structure that they referred to as the "third straw" to pull water out of the greater depths of the lake.the challenges associated with providing water to a modern city are not restricted to the american southwest. in the year 2007, the third largest city in australia, brisbane, came within 6 months of running out of water. a similar drama is playing out today in são paulo, brazil, where the main reservoir for the city has gone from being completely full in 2010, to being nearly empty today as the city approaches the 2016 summer olympics.for those of us who are fortunate enough to live in one of the world's great cities, we've never truly experienced the effects of a catastrophic drought. we like to complain about the navy showers we have to take. we like our neighbors to see our dirty cars and our brown lawns. but we've never really faced the prospect of turning on the tap and having nothing come out. and that's because when things have gotten bad in the past, it's always been possible to expand a reservoir or dig a few more groundwater wells. well, in a time when all of the water resources are spoken for, it's not going to be possible to rely on this tried and true way of providing ourselves with water.some people think that we're going to solve the urban water problem by taking water from our rural neighbors. but that's an approach that's fraught with political, legal and social dangers. and even if we succeed in grabbing the water from our rural neighbors, we're just transferring the problem to someone else and there's a good chance it will come back and bite us in the form of higher food prices and damage to the aquatic ecosystems that already rely upon that water.i think that there's a better way to solve our urban water crisis and i think that's to open up four new local sources of water that i liken to faucets. if we can make smart investments in these new sources of water in the coming years, we can solve our urban water problem and decrease the likelihood that we'll ever run across the effects of a catastrophic drought.now, if you told me 20 years ago that a modern city could exist without a supply of imported water, i probably would have dismissed you as an unrealistic and uninformed dreamer. but my own experiences working with some of the world's most water-starved cities in the last decades have shown me that we have the technologies and the management skills to actually transition away from imported water, and that's what i want to tell you about tonight.the first source of local water supply that we need to develop to solve our urban water problem will flow with the rainwater that falls in our cities. one of the great tragedies of urban development is that as our cities grew, we started covering all the surfaces with concrete and asphalt. and when we did that, we had to build storm sewers to get the water that fell on the cities out before it could cause flooding, and that's a waste of a vital water resource. let me give you an example.this figure here shows you the volume of water that could be collected in the city of san jose if they could harvest the stormwater that fell within the city limits. you can see from the intersection of the blue line and the black dotted line that if san jose could just capture half of the water that fell within the city, they'd have enough water to get them through an entire year.now, i know what some of you are probably thinking. "the answer to our problem is to start building great big tanks and attaching them to the downspouts of our roof gutters, rainwater harvesting." now, that's an idea that might work in some places. but if you live in a place where it mainly rains in the winter time and most of the water demand is in the summertime, it's not a very cost-effective way to solve a water problem. and if you experience the effects of a multiyear drought, like california's currently experiencing, you just can't build a rainwater tank that's big enough to solve your problem.i think there's a lot more practical way to harvest the stormwater and the rainwater that falls in our cities, and that's to capture it and let it percolate into the ground. after all, many of our cities are sitting on top of a natural water storage system that can accommodate huge volumes of water.for example, historically, los angeles has obtained about a third of its water supply from a massive aquifer that underlies the san fernando valley. now, when you look at the water that comes off of your roof and runs off of your lawn and flows down the gutter, you might say to yourself, "do i really want to drink that stuff?" well, the answer is you don't want to drink it until it's been treated a little bit. and so the challenge that we face in urban water harvesting is to capture the water, clean the water and get it underground.and that's exactly what the city of los angeles is doing with a new project that they're building in burbank, california. this figure here shows the stormwater park that they're building by hooking a series of stormwater collection systems, or storm sewers, and routing that water into an abandoned gravel quarry. the water that's captured in the quarry is slowly passed through a man-made wetland, and then it goes into that ball field there and percolates into the ground, recharging the drinking water aquifer of the city.and in the process of passing through the wetland and percolating through the ground, the water encounters microbes that live on the surfaces of the plants and the surfaces of the soil, and that purifies the water. and if the water's still not clean enough to drink after it's been through this natural treatment process, the city can treat it again when they pump if back out of the groundwater aquifers before they deliver it to people to drink.the second tap that we need to open up to solve our urban water problem will flow with the wastewater that comes out of our sewage treatment plants. now, many of you are probably familiar with the concept of recycled water. you've probably seen signs like this that tell you that the shrubbery and the highway median and the local golf course is being watered with water that used to be in a sewage treatment plant. we've been doing this for a couple of decades now. but what we're learning from our experience is that this approach is much more expensive that we expected it to be. because once we build the first few water recycling systems close to the sewage treatment plant, we have to build longer and longer pipe networks to get that water to where it needs to go. and that becomes prohibitive in terms of cost.what we're finding is that a much more cost-effective and practical way of recycling wastewater is to turn treated wastewater into drinking water through a two-step process. in the first step in this process we pressurize the water and pass it through a reverse osmosis membrane: a thin, permeable plastic membrane that allows water molecules to pass through but traps and retains the salts, the viruses and the organic chemicals that might be present in the wastewater.in the second step in the process, we add a small amount of hydrogen peroxide and shine ultraviolet light on the water. the ultraviolet light cleaves the hydrogen peroxide into two parts that are called hydroxyl radicals, and these hydroxyl radicals are very potent forms of oxygen that break down most organic chemicals.after the water's been through this two-stage process, it's safe to drink. i know, i've been studying recycled water using every measurement technique known to modern science for the past 15 years. we've detected some chemicals that can make it through the first step in the process, but by the time we get to the second step, the advanced oxidation process, we rarely see any chemicals present. and that's in stark contrast to the taken-for-granted water supplies that we regularly drink all the time.there's another way we can recycle water. this is an engineered treatment wetland that we recently built on the santa ana river in southern california. the treatment wetland receives water from a part of the santa ana river that in the summertime consists almost entirely of wastewater effluent from cities like riverside and san bernardino. the water comes into our treatment wetland, it's exposed to sunlight and algae and those break down the organic chemicals, remove the nutrients and inactivate the waterborne pathogens. the water gets put back in the santa ana river, it flows down to anaheim, gets taken out at anaheim and percolated into the ground, and becomes the drinking water of the city of anaheim, completing the trip from the sewers of riverside county to the drinking water supply of orange county.now, you might think that this idea of drinking wastewater is some sort of futuristic fantasy or not commonly done. well, in california, we already recycle about 40 billion gallons a year of wastewater through the two-stage advanced treatment process i was telling you about. that's enough water to be the supply of about a million people if it were their sole water supply.the third tap that we need to open up will not be a tap at all, it will be a kind of virtual tap, it will be the water conservation that we manage to do. and the place where we need to think about water conservation is outdoors because in california and other modern american cities, about half of our water use happens outdoors.in the current drought, we've seen that it's possible to have our lawns survive and our plants survive with about half as much water. so there's no need to start painting concrete green and putting in astroturf and buying cactuses. we can have california-friendly landscaping with soil moisture detectors and smart irrigation controllers and have beautiful green landscapes in our cities.the fourth and final water tap that we need to open up to solve our urban water problem will flow with desalinated seawater. now, i know what you probably heard people say about seawater desalination. "it's a great thing to do if you have lots of oil, not a lot of water and you don't care about climate change." seawater desalination is energy-intensive no matter how you slice it. but that characterization of seawater desalination as being a nonstarter is hopelessly out of date. we've made tremendous progress in seawater desalination in the past two decades.this picture shows you the largest seawater desalination plant in the western hemisphere that's currently being built north of san diego. compared to the seawater desalination plant that was built in santa barbara 25 years ago, this treatment plant will use about half the energy to produce a gallon of water.but just because seawater desalination has become less energy-intensive, doesn't mean we should start building desalination plants everywhere. among the different choices we have, it's probably the most energy-intensive and potentially environmentally damaging of the options to create a local water supply.so there it is. with these four sources of water, we can move away from our reliance on imported water. through reform in the way we landscape our surfaces and our properties, we can reduce outdoor water use by about 50 percent, thereby increasing the water supply by 25 percent. we can recycle the water that makes it into the sewer, thereby increasing our water supply by 40 percent. and we can make up the difference through a combination of stormwater harvesting and seawater desalination.so, let's create a water supply that will be able to withstand any of the challenges that climate change throws at us in the coming years. let's create a water supply that uses local sources and leaves more water in the environment for fish and for food. let's create a water system that's consistent with out environmental values. and let's do it for our children and our grandchildren and let's tell them this is the system that they have to take care of in the future because it's our last chance to create a new kind of water system.thank you very much for your attention. <title = "This is what happens when you reply to spam email">
<tags = "['comedy', 'communication', 'curiosity', 'humor', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Comedian and writer">
a few years ago, i got one of those spam emails. and it managed to get through my spam filter. i'm not quite sure how, but it turned up in my inbox, and it was from a guy called solomon odonkoh. i know. it went like this: it said, "hello james veitch, i have an interesting business proposal i want to share with you, solomon." now, my hand was kind of hovering on the delete button, right? i was looking at my phone. i thought, i could just delete this. or i could do what i think we've all always wanted to do. and i said, "solomon, your email intrigues me." and the game was afoot.he said, "dear james veitch, we shall be shipping gold to you." "you will earn 10% of any gold you distributes." so i knew i was dealing with a professional. i said, "how much is it worth?"he said, "we will start with smaller quantity," — i was like, aww — and then he said, "of 25 kgs. the worth should be about $2.5 million."i said, "solomon, if we're going to do it, let's go big. i can handle it. how much gold do you have?" he said, "it is not a matter of how much gold i have, what matters is your capability of handling. we can start with 50 kgs as trial shipment."i said, "50 kgs? there's no point doing this at all unless you're shipping at least a metric ton." he said, "what do you do for a living?" i said, "i'm a hedge fund executive bank manager." this isn't the first time i've shipped bullion, my friend, no no no.then i started to panic. i was like, "where are you based?" i don't know about you, but i think if we're going via the postal service, it ought to be signed for. that's a lot of gold."he said, "it will not be easy to convince my company to do larger quantity shipment."i said, "solomon, i'm completely with you on this one. i'm putting together a visual for you to take into the board meeting. hold tight." this is what i sent solomon. i don't know if we have any statisticians in the house, but there's definitely something going on. i said, "solomon, attached to this email you'll find a helpful chart. i've had one of my assistants run the numbers. we're ready for shipping as much gold as possible."there's always a moment where they try to tug your heartstrings, and this was it for solomon. he said, "i will be so much happy if the deal goes well, because i'm going to get a very good commission as well." and i said, "that's amazing, what are you going to spend your cut on?" and he said, "on realestate, what about you?"i thought about it for a long time. and i said, "one word; hummus." "it's going places. i was in sainsbury's the other day and there were like 30 different varieties. also you can cut up carrots, and you can dip them. have you ever done that, solomon?" he said, "i have to go bed now." "till morrow. have sweet dream."i didn't know what to say! i said, "bonsoir my golden nugget, bonsoir." guys, you have to understand, this had been going for, like, weeks, albeit hitherto the greatest weeks of my life, but i had to knock it on the head. it was getting a bit out of hand. friends were saying, "james, do you want to come for a drink?" i was like, "i can't, i'm expecting an email about some gold."so i figured i had to knock it on the head. i had to take it to a ridiculous conclusion. so i concocted a plan. i said, "solomon, i'm concerned about security. when we email each other, we need to use a code." and he agreed. i said, "solomon, i spent all night coming up with this code we need to use in all further correspondence:lawyer: gummy bear.bank: cream egg.legal: fizzy cola bottle. claim: peanut m&ms.documents: jelly beans.western union: a giant gummy lizard." i knew these were all words they use, right? i said, "please call me kitkat in all further correspondence." i didn't hear back. i thought, i've gone too far. i've gone too far. so i had to backpedal a little. i said, "solomon, is the deal still on? kitkat." because you have to be consistent. then i did get an email back from him. he said, "the business is on and i am trying to blah blah blah ..."i said, "dude, you have to use the code!" what followed is the greatest email i've ever received. i'm not joking, this is what turned up in my inbox. this was a good day. "the business is on. i am trying to raise the balance for the gummy bear — so he can submit all the needed fizzy cola bottle jelly beans to the creme egg, for the peanut m&ms process to start. send 1,500 pounds via a giant gummy lizard." and that was so much fun, right, that it got me thinking: like, what would happen if i just spent as much time as could replying to as many scam emails as i could? and that's what i've been doing for three years on your behalf. crazy stuff happens when you start replying to scam emails. it's really difficult, and i highly recommend we do it. i don't think what i'm doing is mean. there are a lot of people who do mean things to scammers. all i'm doing is wasting their time. and i think any time they're spending with me is time they're not spending scamming vulnerable adults out of their savings, right?and if you're going to do this — and i highly recommend you do — get yourself a pseudonymous email address. don't use your own email address. that's what i was doing at the start and it was a nightmare. i'd wake up in the morning and have a thousand emails about penis enlargements, only one of which was a legitimate response — to a medical question i had.but i'll tell you what, though, guys, i'll tell you what: any day is a good day, any day is a good day if you receive an email that begins like this: "i am winnie mandela, the second wife of nelson mandela the former south african president." i was like, oh! — that winnie mandela. i know so many."i need to transfer 45 million dollars out of the country because of my husband nelson mandela's health condition."let that sink in. she sent me this, which is hysterical. and this. and this looks fairly legitimate, this is a letter of authorization. but to be honest, if there's nothing written on it, it's just a shape! i said, "winnie, i'm really sorry to hear of this. given that nelson died three months ago, i'd describe his health condition as fairly serious." that's the worst health condition you can have, not being alive.she said, "kindly comply with my bankers instructions. one love." i said, "of course. no woman, no cry." she said, "my banker will need transfer of 3000 dollars. one love." i said, "no problemo.i shot the sheriff."[ (but i did not shoot the deputy) ] thank you. <title = "How frustration can make us more creative">
<tags = "['cognitive science', 'collaboration', 'composing', 'creativity', 'innovation', 'music', 'potential', 'psychology', 'success', 'work']">
<occupation = "Economist, journalist and broadcaster">
late in january 1975, a 17-year-old german girl called vera brandes walked out onto the stage of the cologne opera house. the auditorium was empty. it was lit only by the dim, green glow of the emergency exit sign. this was the most exciting day of vera's life. she was the youngest concert promoter in germany, and she had persuaded the cologne opera house to host a late-night concert of jazz from the american musician, keith jarrett. 1,400 people were coming. and in just a few hours, jarrett would walk out on the same stage, he'd sit down at the piano and without rehearsal or sheet music, he would begin to play.but right now, vera was introducing keith to the piano in question, and it wasn't going well. jarrett looked to the instrument a little warily, played a few notes, walked around it, played a few more notes, muttered something to his producer. then the producer came over to vera and said ... "if you don't get a new piano, keith can't play."there'd been a mistake. the opera house had provided the wrong instrument. this one had this harsh, tinny upper register, because all the felt had worn away. the black notes were sticking, the white notes were out of tune, the pedals didn't work and the piano itself was just too small. it wouldn't create the volume that would fill a large space such as the cologne opera house.so keith jarrett left. he went and sat outside in his car, leaving vera brandes to get on the phone to try to find a replacement piano. now she got a piano tuner, but she couldn't get a new piano. and so she went outside and she stood there in the rain, talking to keith jarrett, begging him not to cancel the concert. and he looked out of his car at this bedraggled, rain-drenched german teenager, took pity on her, and said, "never forget ... only for you."and so a few hours later, jarrett did indeed step out onto the stage of the opera house, he sat down at the unplayable piano and began.(music)within moments it became clear that something magical was happening. jarrett was avoiding those upper registers, he was sticking to the middle tones of the keyboard, which gave the piece a soothing, ambient quality. but also, because the piano was so quiet, he had to set up these rumbling, repetitive riffs in the bass. and he stood up twisting, pounding down on the keys, desperately trying to create enough volume to reach the people in the back row.it's an electrifying performance. it somehow has this peaceful quality, and at the same time it's full of energy, it's dynamic. and the audience loved it. audiences continue to love it because the recording of the köln concert is the best-selling piano album in history and the best-selling solo jazz album in history.keith jarrett had been handed a mess. he had embraced that mess, and it soared. but let's think for a moment about jarrett's initial instinct. he didn't want to play. of course, i think any of us, in any remotely similar situation, would feel the same way, we'd have the same instinct. we don't want to be asked to do good work with bad tools. we don't want to have to overcome unnecessary hurdles. but jarrett's instinct was wrong, and thank goodness he changed his mind. and i think our instinct is also wrong. i think we need to gain a bit more appreciation for the unexpected advantages of having to cope with a little mess. so let me give you some examples from cognitive psychology, from complexity science, from social psychology, and of course, rock 'n' roll.so cognitive psychology first. we've actually known for a while that certain kinds of difficulty, certain kinds of obstacle, can actually improve our performance. for example, the psychologist daniel oppenheimer, a few years ago, teamed up with high school teachers. and he asked them to reformat the handouts that they were giving to some of their classes. so the regular handout would be formatted in something straightforward, such as helvetica or times new roman. but half these classes were getting handouts that were formatted in something sort of intense, like haettenschweiler, or something with a zesty bounce, like comic sans italicized. now, these are really ugly fonts, and they're difficult fonts to read. but at the end of the semester, students were given exams, and the students who'd been asked to read the more difficult fonts, had actually done better on their exams, in a variety of subjects. and the reason is, the difficult font had slowed them down, forced them to work a bit harder, to think a bit more about what they were reading, to interpret it ... and so they learned more.another example. the psychologist shelley carson has been testing harvard undergraduates for the quality of their attentional filters. what do i mean by that? what i mean is, imagine you're in a restaurant, you're having a conversation, there are all kinds of other conversations going on in the restaurant, you want to filter them out, you want to focus on what's important to you. can you do that? if you can, you have good, strong attentional filters. but some people really struggle with that. some of carson's undergraduate subjects struggled with that. they had weak filters, they had porous filters — let a lot of external information in. and so what that meant is they were constantly being interrupted by the sights and the sounds of the world around them. if there was a television on while they were doing their essays, they couldn't screen it out.now, you would think that that was a disadvantage ... but no. when carson looked at what these students had achieved, the ones with the weak filters were vastly more likely to have some real creative milestone in their lives, to have published their first novel, to have released their first album. these distractions were actually grists to their creative mill. they were able to think outside the box because their box was full of holes.let's talk about complexity science. so how do you solve a really complex — the world's full of complicated problems — how do you solve a really complicated problem?for example, you try to make a jet engine. there are lots and lots of different variables, the operating temperature, the materials, all the different dimensions, the shape. you can't solve that kind of problem all in one go, it's too hard. so what do you do? well, one thing you can do is try to solve it step-by-step. so you have some kind of prototype and you tweak it, you test it, you improve it. you tweak it, you test it, you improve it. now, this idea of marginal gains will eventually get you a good jet engine. and it's been quite widely implemented in the world. so you'll hear about it, for example, in high performance cycling, web designers will talk about trying to optimize their web pages, they're looking for these step-by-step gains.that's a good way to solve a complicated problem. but you know what would make it a better way? a dash of mess. you add randomness, early on in the process, you make crazy moves, you try stupid things that shouldn't work, and that will tend to make the problem-solving work better. and the reason for that is the trouble with the step-by-step process, the marginal gains, is they can walk you gradually down a dead end. and if you start with the randomness, that becomes less likely, and your problem-solving becomes more robust.let's talk about social psychology. so the psychologist katherine phillips, with some colleagues, recently gave murder mystery problems to some students, and these students were collected in groups of four and they were given dossiers with information about a crime — alibis and evidence, witness statements and three suspects. and the groups of four students were asked to figure out who did it, who committed the crime. and there were two treatments in this experiment. in some cases these were four friends, they all knew each other well. in other cases, three friends and a stranger. and you can see where i'm going with this.obviously i'm going to say that the groups with the stranger solved the problem more effectively, which is true, they did. actually, they solved the problem quite a lot more effectively. so the groups of four friends, they only had a 50-50 chance of getting the answer right. which is actually not that great — in multiple choice, for three answers? 50-50's not good. the three friends and the stranger, even though the stranger didn't have any extra information, even though it was just a case of how that changed the conversation to accommodate that awkwardness, the three friends and the stranger, they had a 75 percent chance of finding the right answer. that's quite a big leap in performance.but i think what's really interesting is not just that the three friends and the stranger did a better job, but how they felt about it. so when katherine phillips interviewed the groups of four friends, they had a nice time, they also thought they'd done a good job. they were complacent. when she spoke to the three friends and the stranger, they had not had a nice time — it's actually rather difficult, it's rather awkward ... and they were full of doubt. they didn't think they'd done a good job even though they had. and i think that really exemplifies the challenge that we're dealing with here.because, yeah — the ugly font, the awkward stranger, the random move ... these disruptions help us solve problems, they help us become more creative. but we don't feel that they're helping us. we feel that they're getting in the way ... and so we resist. and that's why the last example is really important.so i want to talk about somebody from the background of the world of rock 'n' roll. and you may know him, he's actually a ted-ster. his name is brian eno. he is an ambient composer — rather brilliant.he's also a kind of catalyst behind some of the great rock 'n' roll albums of the last 40 years. he's worked with david bowie on "heroes," he worked with u2 on "achtung baby" and "the joshua tree," he's worked with devo, he's worked with coldplay, he's worked with everybody.and what does he do to make these great rock bands better? well, he makes a mess. he disrupts their creative processes. it's his role to be the awkward stranger. it's his role to tell them that they have to play the unplayable piano.and one of the ways in which he creates this disruption is through this remarkable deck of cards — i have my signed copy here — thank you, brian. they're called the oblique strategies, he developed them with a friend of his. and when they're stuck in the studio, brian eno will reach for one of the cards. he'll draw one at random, and he'll make the band follow the instructions on the card.so this one ... "change instrument roles." yeah, everyone swap instruments — drummer on the piano — brilliant, brilliant idea."look closely at the most embarrassing details. amplify them.""make a sudden, destructive, unpredictable action. incorporate."these cards are disruptive.now, they've proved their worth in album after album. the musicians hate them. so phil collins was playing drums on an early brian eno album. he got so frustrated he started throwing beer cans across the studio.carlos alomar, great rock guitarist, working with eno on david bowie's "lodger" album, and at one point he turns to brian and says, "brian, this experiment is stupid." but the thing is it was a pretty good album, but also, carlos alomar, 35 years later, now uses the oblique strategies. and he tells his students to use the oblique strategies because he's realized something. just because you don't like it doesn't mean it isn't helping you.the strategies actually weren't a deck of cards originally, they were just a list — list on the recording studio wall. a checklist of things you might try if you got stuck.the list didn't work. know why? not messy enough. your eye would go down the list and it would settle on whatever was the least disruptive, the least troublesome, which of course misses the point entirely.and what brian eno came to realize was, yes, we need to run the stupid experiments, we need to deal with the awkward strangers, we need to try to read the ugly fonts. these things help us. they help us solve problems, they help us be more creative.but also ... we really need some persuasion if we're going to accept this. so however we do it ... whether it's sheer willpower, whether it's the flip of a card or whether it's a guilt trip from a german teenager, all of us, from time to time, need to sit down and try and play the unplayable piano.thank you. <title = "I love being a police officer, but we need reform">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'big problems', 'community', 'crime', 'faith', 'law', 'peace', 'policy', 'security', 'society', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Chief of the Community Partnership Division, Baltimore Police Department">
i have been a police officer for a very, very long time. and you see these notes in my hand because i'm also a black preacher. and if you know anything about black preachers, we'll close, and then we'll keep going for another 20 minutes. so i need this to keep pushing this thing forward. i've been a police officer for a very long time, and i mean i predated technology. i'm talking about before pagers. laugh if you want to, but i'm telling the truth. i predate war on our fellow man — i mean, war on drugs. i predate all of that. i predate so much and i've been through ebbs and flows and i've been through good and bad times, and still i absolutely love being a police officer. i love being a police officer because it's always been a calling for me and never a job.and even with that, my personal truth is that law enforcement is in a crisis. it's an invisible crisis, and it has been for many, many years. even though we in law enforcement say, "you know what? we can't arrest our way out of this." we say in law enforcement things like, "yeah, it's illegal to profile." you know what? in law enforcement, we even agree that we have to adopt this thinking and become more oriented to community policing. and yet all the while, still, we continue in the same vein, the same vein that contradicts everything that we just admitted.and so that's the reason for me, several years ago. because i was tired of the racism, i was tired of discrimination, i was tired of the "-isms" and the schisms. i was just so tired. i was tired of the vicious cycle, and i was tired of it even in the beloved agency in the department that i still love today. and so my wife and i, we sat down and we decided and we targeted a date that we would retire. we would retire and i would go off into the sunset, maybe do ministry full time, love my wife a long time. y'all know what i'm talking about. but we decided that i would retire. but then there was a higher power than i. there was a love for the city that i loved, that i grew up in, that i was educated in — a city that pulled my heart back into the system. so we didn't retire. we didn't retire and so what happened was, over the next — i would say, 18 months, 19 months, i had this passion to implement some radical policing. and so now, over the next 19 months, i shifted, and i transcended from being a drug sergeant — ready to retire as a drug sergeant — and went from level to level to level, until i find myself as a district commander, commander of the worst district in baltimore city. we call it the eastern district, the most violent district, the most impoverished district — 46 percent unemployment in that district. national rating at that time, national rating, the aids and the tuberculosis [rating], was always on the top 10 list for zip codes for cities across the nation, or just zip codes across the nation. the top 10 — i didn't say state, i didn't say city — that little neighborhood.and i said, you know what? we gotta do something different. we gotta do something different. we gotta think radical. we gotta think outside the box. and so in order to bring change that i desperately wanted and i desperately felt in my heart, i had to start listening to that inner spirit. i had to start listening to that man on the inside that went against everything that i had been trained to do.but we still did it. we still did it because we listened to that inner spirit, because i realized this: if i was to see real police reform in the communities that i had authority over for public safety, we had to change our stinkin' thinkin'.we had to change it. and so what we did is we started to think holistically and not paramilitarily. so we thought differently. and we started to realize that it could never be and never should have been us versus them. and so i decided to come to that intersection where i could meet all classes, all races, all creeds, all colors; where i would meet the businesses and the faith-based, and the eds, the meds, and i would meet all the people that made up the communities that i had authority over.so i met them and i began to listen. see, police have a problem. off the top, we want to bring things into the community and come up with these extravagant strategies and deployments, but we never talk to the community about them. and we shove them into the community and say, "take that." but we said we'd get rid of that stinkin' thinkin', so we talked to our communities. we said, "this is your community table. we'll pull up a chair. we want to hear from you. what's going to work in your community?" and then some great things started to happen.see, here's the thing: i had to figure out a way to shift 130 cops that were under my tutelage from being occupiers of communities to being partners. i had to figure out how to do that. because here's the crazy thing: in law enforcement, we have evolved into something incredible. listen, we have become great protectors. we know how to protect you. but we have exercised that arm so much, so very much. if i was a natural police department and i represented a police department, you would see this incredible, beautiful, 23-inch arm. it's pretty, ain't it? it's cut up. no fat on it. mmm it look good. it just look good! that's a great arm — protection! that's who we are, but we've exercised it so much sometimes that it has led to abuse. it's led to coldness and callousness and dehumanized us. and we've forgotten the mantra across this nation is to protect and serve. y'all don't know that? protect and serve. so you look at the other arm, and then you look at it and ... there it is. you know, it's kinda weak. it looks sickly. it's withering and it's dying because we've invested so much in our protective arm. but we forgot to treat our communities like they're our customers; like they're our sons and daughters, our brothers and sisters, our mothers and fathers. and so somehow, along the way, we've gotten out of balance. and because we are a proud profession, it is very hard for us to look in the mirror and see our mistakes. it's even harder to make a change.and so, as i try to hurry and get through this, i need to say this: it's not just law enforcement, though. because every one of us makes up a community. everybody makes up a community. and as communities — can i say this? — we have put too much responsibility on law enforcement. too much. and then we have the audacity and the nerve to get upset with law enforcement when we take action. there is no way in the world that we, as a community, should be calling the police for kids playing ball in the street. no way in the world that we should be calling the police because my neighbor's music is up too loud, because his dog came over to my yard and did a number two; there's no way we should be calling the police. but we have surrendered so much of our responsibility. listen, when i was a little boy coming up in baltimore — and listen, we played rough in the street — i ain't never see the police come and break us up. you know who came? it was the elders. it was the parental figures in the community. it was those guardians, it was that village mentality. they came and said, "stop that!" and "do this." and "stop that." we had mentors throughout all of the community.so it takes all of us, all of us. and when i say community, i'm talking about everything that makes up a community, even — listen, because i'm a preacher, i'm very hard on the churches, because i believe the churches too often have become mia, missing in action. i believe they have shifted over the last 10, 20 years from being community churches, where you walk outside your door, round the corner and you're in church. they shifted from that and became commuter churches. so you now have churches who have become disconnected by default from the very community where they're planted. and they don't take care of that community.i could go on and on, but i really need to wrap this up. community and policing: we've all lost that precious gift, and i call it relational equity. we've lost it with one another. it's not somebody else's fault — it's all of our fault. we all take responsibility in this. but i say this: it's not too late for all of us to build our cities and nation to make it great again. it is never too late. it is never too late. you see, after three years of my four-and-a-half-year commandship in that district, three years in, after putting pastors in the car with my police because i knew this — it's a little secret — i knew this: it was hard to stay a nasty police officer while you're riding around with a clergy. you'd be getting in and out of the car, looking to your right, talking about: "father, forgive me, for i have sinned," all day long — you can't do it! so we came up with some incredible initiatives, engagements for our community and police to build that trust back. we began to deal with our youth and with those who we consider are on the wrong side of the fence. we knew we had an economic problem, so we began to create jobs. we knew there was sickness in our community and they didn't have access to proper medical care, so we'd partner up. we got to that intersection and partnered up with anybody that wanted to partner with us and talked about what we needed holistically, never thinking about the crime. because at the end of the day, if we took care of the needs of the people, if we got to the root cause, the crime would take care of itself. it would take care of itself. and so, after three years of a four-and-a-half-year stint, we looked back and we looked over and found out that we were at a 40-year historical low: our crime numbers, our homicides — everything had dropped down, back to the 1970s. and it might go back further, but the problem is, we only started keeping data since 1970. forty-year crime low, so much so, i had other commanders call me, "hey mel, whatcha doin', man? whatcha doin'? we gotta get some of that!" and so we gave them some of that. and in a short period of time, the city went to a 30-year crime low. for the first time in 30 years, we fell, baltimore city, to under 200 homicides — 197 to be exact. and we celebrated, because we had learned to become great servers, become great servers first.but i gotta tell you this: these last few years, as much as we had learned to become great proactive police officers and great relational police officers rather than reactive, these last years have disappointed me. they have broken my heart. the uprising still hurts. it still hurts my heart, because truly i believe that it should've never happened. i believe it should've never happened if we were allowed to continue along the vein that we were in, servicing our community, treating them like human beings, treating them with respect, loving on them first. if we continued in that vein, it would've never happened. but somehow, we went back to business as usual.but i'm excited again! i'm excited again, because now we have a police commissioner who not only talks about community policing, but he absolutely understands it, and more importantly, he embraces it. so i'm very excited now. listen, i'm excited about baltimore today, because we, as many cities, i believe shall rise from the ashes. i believe — i truly believe — that we will be great again. i believe, as we continue to wrap arms and continue to say, "we're in this together," because it's not just an intersection: once we meet, we now gotta get on the same path for the same goals, and this city will become great again. this nation will become great again. because we have the same goal: we all want peace. we all want respect for one another. we all want love. and i believe we are back on that road, and i'm so excited about it.so listen, i thank you for giving me a few minutes of your time.god bless you all. god bless you. <title = "Let's design social media that drives real change">
<tags = "['Egypt', 'Internet', 'Middle East', 'activism', 'big problems', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'computers', 'democracy', 'entrepreneur', 'government', 'innovation', 'media', 'politics', 'social change', 'social media', 'society', 'state-building', 'web']">
<occupation = "Internet activist and computer engineer">
i once said, "if you want to liberate a society, all you need is the internet." i was wrong.i said those words back in 2011, when a facebook page i anonymously created helped spark the egyptian revolution. the arab spring revealed social media's greatest potential, but it also exposed its greatest shortcomings. the same tool that united us to topple dictators eventually tore us apart. i would like to share my own experience in using social media for activism, and talk about some of the challenges i have personally faced and what we could do about them.in the early 2000s, arabs were flooding the web. thirsty for knowledge, for opportunities, for connecting with the rest of the people around the globe, we escaped our frustrating political realities and lived a virtual, alternative life. just like many of them, i was completely apolitical until 2009. at the time, when i logged into social media, i started seeing more and more egyptians aspiring for political change in the country. it felt like i was not alone.in june 2010, internet changed my life forever. while browsing facebook, i saw a photo, a terrifying photo, of a tortured, dead body of a young egyptian guy. his name was khaled said. khaled was a 29-year-old alexandrian who was killed by police. i saw myself in his picture. i thought, "i could be khaled."i could not sleep that night, and i decided to do something. i anonymously created a facebook page and called it "we are all khaled said." in just three days, the page had over 100,000 people, fellow egyptians who shared the same concern. whatever was happening had to stop.i recruited my co-admin, abdelrahman mansour. we worked together for hours and hours. we were crowdsourcing ideas from the people. we were engaging them. we were calling collectively for actions, and sharing news that the regime did not want egyptians to know. the page became the most followed page in the arab world. it had more fans than established media organizations and even top celebrities.on january 14, 2011, ben ali fled out of tunisia after mounting protests against his regime. i saw a spark of hope. egyptians on social media were wondering, "if tunisia did it, why can't we?" i posted an event on facebook and called it "a revolution against corruption, injustice and dictatorship." i posed a question to the 300,000 users of the page at the time: "today is the 14th of january. the 25th of january is police day. it's a national holiday. if 100,000 of us take to the streets of cairo, no one is going to stop us. i wonder if we could do it."in just a few days, the invitation reached over a million people, and over 100,000 people confirmed attendance. social media was crucial for this campaign. it helped a decentralized movement arise. it made people realize that they were not alone. and it made it impossible for the regime to stop it. at the time, they didn't even understand it. and on january 25th, egyptians flooded the streets of cairo and other cities, calling for change, breaking the barrier of fear and announcing a new era.then came the consequences. a few hours before the regime cut off the internet and telecommunications, i was walking in a dark street in cairo, around midnight. i had just tweeted, "pray for egypt. the government must be planning a massacre tomorrow."i was hit hard on my head. i lost my balance and fell down, to find four armed men surrounding me. one covered my mouth and the others paralyzed me. i knew i was being kidnapped by state security.i found myself in a cell, handcuffed, blindfolded. i was terrified. so was my family, who started looking for me in hospitals, police stations and even morgues.after my disappearance, a few of my fellow colleagues who knew i was the admin of the page told the media about my connection with that page, and that i was likely arrested by state security. my colleagues at google started a search campaign trying to find me, and the fellow protesters in the square demanded my release.after 11 days of complete darkness, i was set free. and three days later, mubarak was forced to step down. it was the most inspiring and empowering moment of my life. it was a time of great hope. egyptians lived a utopia for 18 days during the revolution. they all shared the belief that we could actually live together despite our differences, that egypt after mubarak would be for all.but unfortunately, the post-revolution events were like a punch in the gut. the euphoria faded, we failed to build consensus, and the political struggle led to intense polarization. social media only amplified that state, by facilitating the spread of misinformation, rumors, echo chambers and hate speech. the environment was purely toxic. my online world became a battleground filled with trolls, lies, hate speech. i started to worry about the safety of my family. but of course, this wasn't just about me. the polarization reached its peak between the two main powers — the army supporters and the islamists. people in the center, like me, started feeling helpless. both groups wanted you to side with them; you were either with them or against them. and on the 3rd of july 2013, the army ousted egypt's first democratically elected president, after three days of popular protest that demanded his resignation.that day i made a very hard decision. i decided to go silent, completely silent. it was a moment of defeat. i stayed silent for more than two years, and i used the time to reflect on everything that happened, trying to understand why did it happen. it became clear to me that while it's true that polarization is primarily driven by our human behavior, social media shapes this behavior and magnifies its impact. say you want to say something that is not based on a fact, pick a fight or ignore someone that you don't like. these are all natural human impulses, but because of technology, acting on these impulses is only one click away.in my view, there are five critical challenges facing today's social media.first, we don't know how to deal with rumors. rumors that confirm people's biases are now believed and spread among millions of people.second, we create our own echo chambers. we tend to only communicate with people that we agree with, and thanks to social media, we can mute, un-follow and block everybody else.third, online discussions quickly descend into angry mobs. all of us probably know that. it's as if we forget that the people behind screens are actually real people and not just avatars.and fourth, it became really hard to change our opinions. because of the speed and brevity of social media, we are forced to jump to conclusions and write sharp opinions in 140 characters about complex world affairs. and once we do that, it lives forever on the internet, and we are less motivated to change these views, even when new evidence arises.fifth — and in my point of view, this is the most critical — today, our social media experiences are designed in a way that favors broadcasting over engagements, posts over discussions, shallow comments over deep conversations. it's as if we agreed that we are here to talk at each other instead of talking with each other.i witnessed how these critical challenges contributed to an already polarized egyptian society, but this is not just about egypt. polarization is on the rise in the whole world. we need to work hard on figuring out how technology could be part of the solution, rather than part of the problem.there's a lot of debate today on how to combat online harassment and fight trolls. this is so important. no one could argue against that. but we need to also think about how to design social media experiences that promote civility and reward thoughtfulness. i know for a fact if i write a post that is more sensational, more one-sided, sometimes angry and aggressive, i get to have more people see that post. i will get more attention.but what if we put more focus on quality? what is more important: the total number of readers of a post you write, or who are the people who have impact that read what you write? couldn't we just give people more incentives to engage in conversations, rather than just broadcasting opinions all the time? or reward people for reading and responding to views that they disagree with? and also, make it socially acceptable that we change our minds, or probably even reward that? what if we have a matrix that says how many people changed their minds, and that becomes part of our social media experience? if i could track how many people are changing their minds, i'd probably write more thoughtfully, trying to do that, rather than appealing to the people who already agree with me and "liking" because i just confirmed their biases.we also need to think about effective crowdsourcing mechanisms, to fact-check widely spread online information, and reward people who take part in that. in essence, we need to rethink today's social media ecosystem and redesign its experiences to reward thoughtfulness, civility and mutual understanding.as a believer in the internet, i teamed up with a few friends, started a new project, trying to find answers and explore possibilities. our first product is a new media platform for conversations. we're hosting conversations that promote mutual understanding and hopefully change minds. we don't claim to have the answers, but we started experimenting with different discussions about very divisive issues, such as race, gun control, the refugee debate, relationship between islam and terrorism. these are conversations that matter.today, at least one out of three people on the planet have access to the internet. but part of this internet is being held captive by the less noble aspects of our human behavior.five years ago, i said, "if you want to liberate society, all you need is the internet."today, i believe if we want to liberate society, we first need to liberate the internet.thank you very much. <title = "Why great architecture should tell a story">
<tags = "['architecture', 'cities', 'collaboration', 'community', 'creativity', 'design', 'engineering', 'environment', 'industrial design', 'innovation', 'productivity', 'public spaces', 'technology', 'urban planning', 'work']">
<occupation = "Architect">
for much of the past century, architecture was under the spell of a famous doctrine. "form follows function" had become modernity's ambitious manifesto and detrimental straitjacket, as it liberated architecture from the decorative, but condemned it to utilitarian rigor and restrained purpose. of course, architecture is about function, but i want to remember a rewriting of this phrase by bernard tschumi, and i want to propose a completely different quality. if form follows fiction, we could think of architecture and buildings as a space of stories — stories of the people that live there, of the people that work in these buildings. and we could start to imagine the experiences our buildings create.in this sense, i'm interested in fiction not as the implausible but as the real, as the reality of what architecture means for the people that live in it and with it. our buildings are prototypes, ideas for how the space of living or how the space of working could be different, and what a space of culture or a space of media could look like today. our buildings are real; they're being built. they're an explicit engagement in physical reality and conceptual possibility. i think of our architecture as organizational structures. at their core is indeed structural thinking, like a system: how can we arrange things in both a functional and experiential way? how can we create structures that generate a series of relationships and narratives? and how can fictive stories of the inhabitants and users of our buildings script the architecture, while the architecture scripts those stories at the same time?and here comes the second term into play, what i call "narrative hybrids" — structures of multiple simultaneous stories that unfold throughout the buildings we create. so we could think of architecture as complex systems of relationships, both in a programmatic and functional way and in an experiential and emotive or social way.this is the headquarters for china's national broadcaster, which i designed together with rem koolhaas at oma. when i first arrived in beijing in 2002, the city planners showed us this image: a forest of several hundred skyscrapers to emerge in the central business district, except at that time, only a handful of them existed. so we had to design in a context that we knew almost nothing about, except one thing: it would all be about verticality.of course, the skyscraper is vertical — it's a profoundly hierarchical structure, the top always the best, the bottom the worst, and the taller you are, the better, so it seems. and we wanted to ask ourselves, could a building be about a completely different quality? could it undo this hierarchy, and could it be about a system that is more about collaboration, rather than isolation? so we took this needle and bent it back into itself, into a loop of interconnected activities. our idea was to bring all aspects of television-making into one single structure: news, program production, broadcasting, research and training, administration — all into a circuit of interconnected activities where people would meet in a process of exchange and collaboration.i still very much like this image. it reminds one of biology classes, if you remember the human body with all its organs and circulatory systems, like at school. and suddenly you think of architecture no longer as built substance, but as an organism, as a life form. and as you start to dissect this organism, you can identify a series of primary technical clusters — program production, broadcasting center and news. those are tightly intertwined with social clusters: meeting rooms, canteens, chat areas — informal spaces for people to meet and exchange. so the organizational structure of this building was a hybrid between the technical and the social, the human and the performative. and of course, we used the loop of the building as a circulatory system, to thread everything together and to allow both visitors and staff to experience all these different functions in a great unity.with 473,000 square meters, it is one of the largest buildings ever built in the world. it has a population of over 10,000 people, and of course, this is a scale that exceeds the comprehension of many things and the scale of typical architecture. so we stopped work for a while and sat down and cut 10,000 little sticks and glued them onto a model, just simply to confront ourselves with what that quantity actually meant.but of course, it's not a number, it is the people, it is a community that inhabits the building, and in order to both comprehend this, but also script this architecture, we identified five characters, hypothetical characters, and we followed them throughout their day in a life in this building, thought of where they would meet, what they would experience. so it was a way to script and design the building, but of course, also to communicate its experiences. this was part of an exhibition with the museum of modern art in both new york and beijing.this is the main broadcast control room, a technical installation so large, it can broadcast over 200 channels simultaneously. and this is how the building stands in beijing today. its first broadcast live was the london olympics 2012, after it had been completed from the outside for the beijing olympics. and you can see at the very tip of this 75-meter cantilever, those three little circles. and they're indeed part of a public loop that goes through the building. they're a piece of glass that you can stand on and watch the city pass by below you in slow motion.the building has become part of everyday life in beijing. it is there. it has also become a very popular backdrop for wedding photography. but its most important moment is maybe sill this one. "that's beijing" is similar to "time out," a magazine that broadcasts what is happening in town during the week, and suddenly you see the building portrayed no longer as physical matter, but actually as an urban actor, as part of a series of personas that define the life of the city. so architecture suddenly assumes the quality of a player, of something that writes stories and performs stories. and i think that could be one of its primary meanings that we believe in.but of course, there's another story to this building. it is the story of the people that made it — 400 engineers and architects that i was guiding over almost a decade of collaborative work that we spent together in scripting this building, in imagining its reality and ultimately getting it built in china.this is a residential development in singapore, large scale. if we look at singapore like most of asia and more and more of the world, of course, it is dominated by the tower, a typology that indeed creates more isolation than connectedness, and i wanted to ask, how could we think about living, not only in terms of the privacy and individuality of ourselves and our apartment, but in an idea of a collective? how could we think about creating a communal environment in which sharing things was as great as having your own?the typical answer to the question — we had to design 1,040 apartments — would have looked like this: 24-story height limit given by the planning authorities, 12 towers with nothing but residual in between — a very tight system that, although the tower isolates you, it doesn't even give you privacy, because you're so close to the next one, that it is very questionable what the qualities of this would be.so i proposed to topple the towers, throw the vertical into the horizontal and stack them up, and what looks a bit random from the side, if you look from the viewpoint of the helicopter, you can see its organizational structure is actually a hexagonal grid, in which these horizontal building blocks are stacked up to create huge outdoor courtyards — central spaces for the community, programmed with a variety of amenities and functions. and you see that these courtyards are not hermetically sealed spaces. they're open, permeable; they're interconnected. we called the project "the interlace," thinking that we interlace and interconnect the human beings and the spaces alike. and the detailed quality of everything we designed was about animating the space and giving the space to the inhabitants. and, in fact, it was a system where we would layer primarily communal spaces, stacked to more and more individual and private spaces. so we would open up a spectrum between the collective and the individual.a little piece of math: if we count all the green that we left on the ground, minus the footprint of the buildings, and we would add back the green of all the terraces, we have 112 percent green space, so more nature than not having built a building. and of course this little piece of math shows you that we are multiplying the space available to those who live there. this is, in fact, the 13th floor of one of these terraces. so you see new datum planes, new grounds planes for social activity.we paid a lot of attention to sustainability. in the tropics, the sun is the most important thing to pay attention to, and, in fact, it is seeking protection from the sun. we first proved that all apartments would have sufficient daylight through the year. we then went on to optimize the glazing of the facades to minimize the energy consumption of the building. but most importantly, we could prove that through the geometry of the building design, the building itself would provide sufficient shading to the courtyards so that those would be usable throughout the entire year. we further placed water bodies along the prevailing wind corridors, so that evaporative cooling would create microclimates that, again, would enhance the quality of those spaces available for the inhabitants. and it was the idea of creating this variety of choices, of freedom to think where you would want to be, where you would want to escape, maybe, within the own complexity of the complex in which you live.but coming from asia to europe: a building for a german media company based in berlin, transitioning from the traditional print media to the digital media. and its ceo asked a few very pertinent questions: why would anyone today still want to go to the office, because you can actually work anywhere? and how could a digital identity of a company be embodied in a building? we created not only an object, but at the center of this object we created a giant space, and this space was about the experience of a collective, the experience of collaboration and of togetherness. communication, interaction as the center of a space that in itself would float, like what we call the collaborative cloud, in the middle of the building, surrounded by an envelope of standard modular offices. so with only a few steps from your quiet work desk, you could participate in the giant collective experience of the central space.finally, we come to london, a project commissioned by the london legacy development corporation of the mayor of london. we were asked to undertake a study and investigate the potential of a site out in stratford in the olympic park. in the 19th century, prince albert had created albertopolis. and boris johnson thought of creating olympicopolis.the idea was to bring together some of britain's greatest institutions, some international ones, and to create a new system of synergies. prince albert, as yet, created albertopolis in the 19th century, thought of showcasing all achievements of mankind, bringing arts and science closer together. and he built exhibition road, a linear sequence of those institutions.but of course, today's society has moved on from there. we no longer live in a world in which everything is as clearly delineated or separated from each other. we live in a world in which boundaries start to blur between the different domains, and in which collaboration and interaction becomes far more important than keeping separations. so we wanted to think of a giant culture machine, a building that would orchestrate and animate the various domains, but allow them to interact and collaborate. at the base of it is a very simple module, a ring module. it can function as a double-loaded corridor, has daylight, has ventilation. it can be glazed over and turned into a giant exhibitional performance space. these modules were stacked together with the idea that almost any function could, over time, occupy any of these modules. so institutions could shrink or contract, as, of course, the future of culture is, in a way, the most uncertain of all. this is how the building sits, adjacent to the aquatics centre, opposite the olympic stadium. and you can see how its cantilevering volumes project out and engage the public space and how its courtyards animate the public inside.the idea was to create a complex system in which institutional entities could maintain their own identity, in which they would not be subsumed in a singular volume. here's a scale comparison to the centre pompidou in paris. it both shows the enormous scale and potential of the project, but also the difference: here, it is a multiplicity of a heterogeneous structure, in which different entities can interact without losing their own identity. and it was this thought: to create an organizational structure that would allow for multiple narratives to be scripted — for those in the educational parts that create and think culture; for those that present the visual arts, the dance; and for the public to be admitted into all of this with a series of possible trajectories, to script their own reading of these narratives and their own experience.and i want to end on a project that is very small, in a way, very different: a floating cinema in the ocean of thailand. friends of mine had founded a film festival, and i thought, if we think of the stories and narratives of movies, we should also think of the narratives of the people that watch them. so i designed a small modular floating platform, based on the techniques of local fishermen, how they built their lobster and fish farms. we collaborated with the local community and built, out of recycled materials of their own, this fantastical floating platform that gently moved in the ocean as we watched films from the british film archive, [1903] "alice in wonderland," for example. the most primordial experiences of the audience merged with the stories of the movies.so i believe that architecture exceeds the domain of physical matter, of the built environment, but is really about how we want to live our lives, how we script our own stories and those of others.thank you. <title = "The mysterious world of underwater caves">
<tags = "['TEDYouth', 'adventure', 'climate change', 'curiosity', 'ecology', 'environment', 'exploration', 'green', 'nature', 'plants', 'robots', 'science', 'sustainability', 'technology', 'water']">
<occupation = "Cave diver">
i'm an underwater explorer, more specifically a cave diver.i wanted to be an astronaut when i was a little kid, but growing up in canada as a young girl, that wasn't really available to me. but as it turns out, we know a lot more about space than we do about the underground waterways coursing through our planet, the very lifeblood of mother earth. so i decided to do something that was even more remarkable. instead of exploring outer space, i wanted to explore the wonders of inner space.now, a lot of people will tell you that cave diving is perhaps one of the most dangerous endeavors. i mean, imagine yourself here in this room, if you were suddenly plunged into blackness, with your only job to find the exit, sometimes swimming through these large spaces, and at other times crawling beneath the seats, following a thin guideline, just waiting for the life support to provide your very next breath. well, that's my workplace.but what i want to teach you today is that our world is not one big solid rock. it's a whole lot more like a sponge. i can swim through a lot of the pores in our earth's sponge, but where i can't, other life-forms and other materials can make that journey without me. and my voice is the one that's going to teach you about the inside of mother earth.there was no guidebook available to me when i decided to be the first person to cave dive inside antarctic icebergs. in 2000, this was the largest moving object on the planet. it calved off the ross ice shelf, and we went down there to explore ice edge ecology and search for life-forms beneath the ice.we use a technology called rebreathers. it's an awful lot like the same technology that is used for space walks. this technology enables us to go deeper than we could've imagined even 10 years ago. we use exotic gases, and we can make missions even up to 20 hours long underwater.i work with biologists. it turns out that caves are repositories of amazing life-forms, species that we never knew existed before. many of these life-forms live in unusual ways. they have no pigment and no eyes in many cases, and these animals are also extremely long-lived. in fact, animals swimming in these caves today are identical in the fossil record that predates the extinction of the dinosaurs. so imagine that: these are like little swimming dinosaurs. what can they teach us about evolution and survival? when we look at an animal like this remipede swimming in the jar, he has giant fangs with venom. he can actually attack something 40 times his size and kill it. if he were the size of a cat, he'd be the most dangerous thing on our planet. and these animals live in remarkably beautiful places, and in some cases, caves like this, that are very young, yet the animals are ancient. how did they get there?i also work with physicists, and they're interested oftentimes in global climate change. they can take rocks within the caves, and they can slice them and look at the layers within with rocks, much like the rings of a tree, and they can count back in history and learn about the climate on our planet at very different times. the red that you see in this photograph is actually dust from the sahara desert. so it's been picked up by wind, blown across the atlantic ocean. it's rained down in this case on the island of abaco in the bahamas. it soaks in through the ground and deposits itself in the rocks within these caves. and when we look back in the layers of these rocks, we can find times when the climate was very, very dry on earth, and we can go back many hundreds of thousands of years.paleoclimatologists are also interested in where the sea level stands were at other times on earth. here in bermuda, my team and i embarked on the deepest manned dives ever conducted in the region, and we were looking for places where the sea level used to lap up against the shoreline, many hundreds of feet below current levels.i also get to work with paleontologists and archaeologists. in places like mexico, in the bahamas, and even in cuba, we're looking at cultural remains and also human remains in caves, and they tell us a lot about some of the earliest inhabitants of these regions.but my very favorite project of all was over 15 years ago, when i was a part of the team that made the very first accurate, three-dimensional map of a subterranean surface. this device that i'm driving through the cave was actually creating a three-dimensional model as we drove it. we also used ultra low frequency radio to broadcast back to the surface our exact position within the cave. so i swam under houses and businesses and bowling alleys and golf courses, and even under a sonny's bbq restaurant,pretty remarkable, and what that taught me was that everything we do on the surface of our earth will be returned to us to drink. our water planet is not just rivers, lakes and oceans, but it's this vast network of groundwater that knits us all together. it's a shared resource from which we all drink. and when we can understand our human connections with our groundwater and all of our water resources on this planet, then we'll be working on the problem that's probably the most important issue of this century.so i never got to be that astronaut that i always wanted to be, but this mapping device, designed by dr. bill stone, will be. it's actually morphed. it's now a self-swimming autonomous robot, artificially intelligent, and its ultimate goal is to go to jupiter's moon europa and explore oceans beneath the frozen surface of that body.and that's pretty amazing. <title = "How we can make crops survive without water">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Bioethics', 'agriculture', 'biology', 'biotech', 'botany', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'environment', 'food', 'garden', 'genetics', 'global issues', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'plants', 'potential', 'science', 'sustainability', 'water', 'weather']">
<occupation = "Professor of molecular and cell biology">
i believe that the secret to producing extremely drought-tolerant crops, which should go some way to providing food security in the world, lies in resurrection plants, pictured here, in an extremely droughted state. you might think that these plants look dead, but they're not. give them water, and they will resurrect, green up, start growing, in 12 to 48 hours.now, why would i suggest that producing drought-tolerant crops will go towards providing food security? well, the current world population is around 7 billion. and it's estimated that by 2050, we'll be between 9 and 10 billion people, with the bulk of this growth happening in africa.the food and agricultural organizations of the world have suggested that we need a 70 percent increase in current agricultural practice to meet that demand. given that plants are at the base of the food chain, most of that's going to have to come from plants.that percentage of 70 percent does not take into consideration the potential effects of climate change.this is taken from a study by dai published in 2011, where he took into consideration all the potential effects of climate change and expressed them — amongst other things — increased aridity due to lack of rain or infrequent rain. the areas in red shown here, are areas that until recently have been very successfully used for agriculture, but cannot anymore because of lack of rainfall. this is the situation that's predicted to happen in 2050. much of africa, in fact, much of the world, is going to be in trouble. we're going to have to think of some very smart ways of producing food. and preferably among them, some drought-tolerant crops.the other thing to remember about africa is that most of their agriculture is rainfed.now, making drought-tolerant crops is not the easiest thing in the world. and the reason for this is water. water is essential to life on this planet. all living, actively metabolizing organisms, from microbes to you and i, are comprised predominately of water. all life reactions happen in water. and loss of a small amount of water results in death. you and i are 65 percent water — we lose one percent of that, we die. but we can make behavioral changes to avoid that. plants can't. they're stuck in the ground. and so in the first instance they have a little bit more water than us, about 95 percent water, and they can lose a little bit more than us, like 10 to about 70 percent, depending on the species, but for short periods only.most of them will either try to resist or avoid water loss. so extreme examples of resistors can be found in succulents. they tend to be small, very attractive, but they hold onto their water at such great cost that they grow extremely slowly. examples of avoidance of water loss are found in trees and shrubs. they send down very deep roots, mine subterranean water supplies and just keep flushing it through them at all times, keeping themselves hydrated.the one on the right is called a baobab. it's also called the upside-down tree, simply because the proportion of roots to shoots is so great that it looks like the tree has been planted upside down. and of course the roots are required for hydration of that plant.and probably the most common strategy of avoidance is found in annuals. annuals make up the bulk of our plant food supplies. up the west coast of my country, for much of the year you don't see much vegetation growth. but come the spring rains, you get this: flowering of the desert.the strategy in annuals, is to grow only in the rainy season. at the end of that season they produce a seed, which is dry, eight to 10 percent water, but very much alive. and anything that is that dry and still alive, we call desiccation-tolerant.in the desiccated state, what seeds can do is lie in extremes of environment for prolonged periods of time. the next time the rainy season comes, they germinate and grow, and the whole cycle just starts again.it's widely believed that the evolution of desiccation-tolerant seeds allowed the colonization and the radiation of flowering plants, or angiosperms, onto land.but back to annuals as our major form of food supplies. wheat, rice and maize form 95 percent of our plant food supplies. and it's been a great strategy because in a short space of time you can produce a lot of seed. seeds are energy-rich so there's a lot of food calories, you can store it in times of plenty for times of famine, but there's a downside. the vegetative tissues, the roots and leaves of annuals, do not have much by way of inherent resistance, avoidance or tolerance characteristics. they just don't need them. they grow in the rainy season and they've got a seed to help them survive the rest of the year.and so despite concerted efforts in agriculture to make crops with improved properties of resistance, avoidance and tolerance — particularly resistance and avoidance because we've had good models to understand how those work — we still get images like this. maize crop in africa, two weeks without rain and it's dead.there is a solution: resurrection plants. these plants can lose 95 percent of their cellular water, remain in a dry, dead-like state for months to years, and give them water, they green up and start growing again. like seeds, these are desiccation-tolerant. like seeds, these can withstand extremes of environmental conditions. and this is a really rare phenomenon. there are only 135 flowering plant species that can do this.i'm going to show you a video of the resurrection process of these three species in that order. and at the bottom, there's a time axis so you can see how quickly it happens. pretty amazing, huh?so i've spent the last 21 years trying to understand how they do this. how do these plants dry without dying? and i work on a variety of different resurrection plants, shown here in the hydrated and dry states, for a number of reasons.one of them is that each of these plants serves as a model for a crop that i'd like to make drought-tolerant.so on the extreme top left, for example, is a grass, it's called eragrostis nindensis, it's got a close relative called eragrostis tef — a lot of you might know it as "teff" — it's a staple food in ethiopia, it's gluten-free, and it's something we would like to make drought-tolerant.the other reason for looking at a number of plants, is that, at least initially, i wanted to find out: do they do the same thing? do they all use the same mechanisms to be able to lose all that water and not die?so i undertook what we call a systems biology approach in order to get a comprehensive understanding of desiccation tolerance, in which we look at everything from the molecular to the whole plant, ecophysiological level.for example we look at things like changes in the plant anatomy as they dried out and their ultrastructure. we look at the transcriptome, which is just a term for a technology in which we look at the genes that are switched on or off, in response to drying. most genes will code for proteins, so we look at the proteome. what are the proteins made in response to drying? some proteins would code for enzymes which make metabolites, so we look at the metabolome.now, this is important because plants are stuck in the ground. they use what i call a highly tuned chemical arsenal to protect themselves from all the stresses of their environment. so it's important that we look at the chemical changes involved in drying.and at the last study that we do at the molecular level, we look at the lipidome — the lipid changes in response to drying. and that's also important because all biological membranes are made of lipids. they're held as membranes because they're in water. take away the water, those membranes fall apart. lipids also act as signals to turn on genes.then we use physiological and biochemical studies to try and understand the function of the putative protectants that we've actually discovered in our other studies. and then use all of that to try and understand how the plant copes with its natural environment.i've always had the philosophy that i needed a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms of desiccation tolerance in order to make a meaningful suggestion for a biotic application.i'm sure some of you are thinking, "by biotic application, does she mean she's going to make genetically modified crops?" and the answer to that question is: depends on your definition of genetic modification.all of the crops that we eat today, wheat, rice and maize, are highly genetically modified from their ancestors, but we don't consider them gm because they're being produced by conventional breeding. if you mean, am i going to put resurrection plant genes into crops, your answer is yes.in the essence of time, we have tried that approach. more appropriately, some of my collaborators at uct, jennifer thomson, suhail rafudeen, have spearheaded that approach and i'm going to show you some data soon.but we're about to embark upon an extremely ambitious approach, in which we aim to turn on whole suites of genes that are already present in every crop. they're just never turned on under extreme drought conditions. i leave it up to you to decide whether those should be called gm or not.i'm going to now just give you some of the data from that first approach. and in order to do that i have to explain a little bit about how genes work.so you probably all know that genes are made of double-stranded dna. it's wound very tightly into chromosomes that are present in every cell of your body or in a plant's body. if you unwind that dna, you get genes. and each gene has a promoter, which is just an on-off switch, the gene coding region, and then a terminator, which indicates that this is the end of this gene, the next gene will start.now, promoters are not simple on-off switches. they normally require a lot of fine-tuning, lots of things to be present and correct before that gene is switched on. so what's typically done in biotech studies is that we use an inducible promoter, we know how to switch it on. we couple that to genes of interest and put that into a plant and see how the plant responds.in the study that i'm going to talk to you about, my collaborators used a drought-induced promoter, which we discovered in a resurrection plant. the nice thing about this promoter is that we do nothing. the plant itself senses drought. and we've used it to drive antioxidant genes from resurrection plants. why antioxidant genes? well, all stresses, particularly drought stress, results in the formation of free radicals, or reactive oxygen species, which are highly damaging and can cause crop death. what antioxidants do is stop that damage.so here's some data from a maize strain that's very popularly used in africa. to the left of the arrow are plants without the genes, to the right — plants with the antioxidant genes. after three weeks without watering, the ones with the genes do a hell of a lot better.now to the final approach. my research has shown that there's considerable similarity in the mechanisms of desiccation tolerance in seeds and resurrection plants. so i ask the question, are they using the same genes? or slightly differently phrased, are resurrection plants using genes evolved in seed desiccation tolerance in their roots and leaves? have they retasked these seed genes in roots and leaves of resurrection plants?and i answer that question, as a consequence of a lot of research from my group and recent collaborations from a group of henk hilhorst in the netherlands, mel oliver in the united states and julia buitink in france. the answer is yes, that there is a core set of genes that are involved in both.and i'm going to illustrate this very crudely for maize, where the chromosomes below the off switch represent all the genes that are required for desiccation tolerance. so as maize seeds dried out at the end of their period of development, they switch these genes on. resurrection plants switch on the same genes when they dry out. all modern crops, therefore, have these genes in their roots and leaves, they just never switch them on. they only switch them on in seed tissues.so what we're trying to do right now is to understand the environmental and cellular signals that switch on these genes in resurrection plants, to mimic the process in crops.and just a final thought. what we're trying to do very rapidly is to repeat what nature did in the evolution of resurrection plants some 10 to 40 million years ago.my plants and i thank you for your attention. <title = "Can a computer write poetry?">
<tags = "['AI', 'TEDYouth', 'TEDx', 'algorithm', 'composing', 'computers', 'creativity', 'identity', 'language', 'literature', 'poetry', 'technology', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer and poet">
i have a question. can a computer write poetry? this is a provocative question. you think about it for a minute, and you suddenly have a bunch of other questions like: what is a computer? what is poetry? what is creativity? but these are questions that people spend their entire lifetime trying to answer, not in a single ted talk. so we're going to have to try a different approach.so up here, we have two poems. one of them is written by a human, and the other one's written by a computer. i'm going to ask you to tell me which one's which. have a go:poem 1: little fly / thy summer's play, / my thoughtless hand / has brush'd away. am i not / a fly like thee? / or art not thou / a man like me?poem 2: we can feel / activist through your life's / morning / pauses to see, pope i hate the / non all the night to start a / great otherwise (...)alright, time's up. hands up if you think poem 1 was written by a human. ok, most of you. hands up if you think poem 2 was written by a human. very brave of you, because the first one was written by the human poet william blake. the second one was written by an algorithm that took all the language from my facebook feed on one day and then regenerated it algorithmically, according to methods that i'll describe a little bit later on. so let's try another test. again, you haven't got ages to read this, so just trust your gut.poem 1: a lion roars and a dog barks. it is interesting / and fascinating that a bird will fly and not / roar or bark. enthralling stories about animals are in my dreams and i will sing them all if i / am not exhausted or weary.poem 2: oh! kangaroos, sequins, chocolate sodas! / you are really beautiful! pearls, / harmonicas, jujubes, aspirins! all / the stuff they've always talked about (...)alright, time's up. so if you think the first poem was written by a human, put your hand up. ok. and if you think the second poem was written by a human, put your hand up. we have, more or less, a 50/50 split here. it was much harder.the answer is, the first poem was generated by an algorithm called racter, that was created back in the 1970s, and the second poem was written by a guy called frank o'hara, who happens to be one of my favorite human poets. so what we've just done now is a turing test for poetry. the turing test was first proposed by this guy, alan turing, in 1950, in order to answer the question, can computers think? alan turing believed that if a computer was able to have a to have a text-based conversation with a human, with such proficiency such that the human couldn't tell whether they are talking to a computer or a human, then the computer can be said to have intelligence.so in 2013, my friend benjamin laird and i, we created a turing test for poetry online. it's called bot or not, and you can go and play it for yourselves. but basically, it's the game we just played. you're presented with a poem, you don't know whether it was written by a human or a computer and you have to guess. so thousands and thousands of people have taken this test online, so we have results.and what are the results? well, turing said that if a computer could fool a human 30 percent of the time that it was a human, then it passes the turing test for intelligence. we have poems on the bot or not database that have fooled 65 percent of human readers into thinking it was written by a human. so, i think we have an answer to our question. according to the logic of the turing test, can a computer write poetry? well, yes, absolutely it can. but if you're feeling a little bit uncomfortable with this answer, that's ok. if you're having a bunch of gut reactions to it, that's also ok because this isn't the end of the story.let's play our third and final test. again, you're going to have to read and tell me which you think is human.poem 1: red flags the reason for pretty flags. / and ribbons. ribbons of flags / and wearing material / reasons for wearing material. (...)poem 2: a wounded deer leaps highest, / i've heard the daffodil i've heard the flag to-day / i've heard the hunter tell; / 'tis but the ecstasy of death, / and then the brake is almost done (...)ok, time is up. so hands up if you think poem 1 was written by a human. hands up if you think poem 2 was written by a human. whoa, that's a lot more people. so you'd be surprised to find that poem 1 was written by the very human poet gertrude stein. and poem 2 was generated by an algorithm called rkcp. now before we go on, let me describe very quickly and simply, how rkcp works. so rkcp is an algorithm designed by ray kurzweil, who's a director of engineering at google and a firm believer in artificial intelligence. so, you give rkcp a source text, it analyzes the source text in order to find out how it uses language, and then it regenerates language that emulates that first text.so in the poem we just saw before, poem 2, the one that you all thought was human, it was fed a bunch of poems by a poet called emily dickinson it looked at the way she used language, learned the model, and then it regenerated a model according to that same structure. but the important thing to know about rkcp is that it doesn't know the meaning of the words it's using. the language is just raw material, it could be chinese, it could be in swedish, it could be the collected language from your facebook feed for one day. it's just raw material. and nevertheless, it's able to create a poem that seems more human than gertrude stein's poem, and gertrude stein is a human.so what we've done here is, more or less, a reverse turing test. so gertrude stein, who's a human, is able to write a poem that fools a majority of human judges into thinking that it was written by a computer. therefore, according to the logic of the reverse turing test, gertrude stein is a computer. feeling confused? i think that's fair enough.so far we've had humans that write like humans, we have computers that write like computers, we have computers that write like humans, but we also have, perhaps most confusingly, humans that write like computers.so what do we take from all of this? do we take that william blake is somehow more of a human than gertrude stein? or that gertrude stein is more of a computer than william blake? these are questions i've been asking myself for around two years now, and i don't have any answers. but what i do have are a bunch of insights about our relationship with technology.so my first insight is that, for some reason, we associate poetry with being human. so that when we ask, "can a computer write poetry?" we're also asking, "what does it mean to be human and how do we put boundaries around this category? how do we say who or what can be part of this category?" this is an essentially philosophical question, i believe, and it can't be answered with a yes or no test, like the turing test. i also believe that alan turing understood this, and that when he devised his test back in 1950, he was doing it as a philosophical provocation.so my second insight is that, when we take the turing test for poetry, we're not really testing the capacity of the computers because poetry-generating algorithms, they're pretty simple and have existed, more or less, since the 1950s. what we are doing with the turing test for poetry, rather, is collecting opinions about what constitutes humanness. so, what i've figured out, we've seen this when earlier today, we say that william blake is more of a human than gertrude stein. of course, this doesn't mean that william blake was actually more human or that gertrude stein was more of a computer. it simply means that the category of the human is unstable. this has led me to understand that the human is not a cold, hard fact. rather, it is something that's constructed with our opinions and something that changes over time.so my final insight is that the computer, more or less, works like a mirror that reflects any idea of a human that we show it. we show it emily dickinson, it gives emily dickinson back to us. we show it william blake, that's what it reflects back to us. we show it gertrude stein, what we get back is gertrude stein. more than any other bit of technology, the computer is a mirror that reflects any idea of the human we teach it.so i'm sure a lot of you have been hearing a lot about artificial intelligence recently. and much of the conversation is, can we build it? can we build an intelligent computer? can we build a creative computer? what we seem to be asking over and over is can we build a human-like computer?but what we've seen just now is that the human is not a scientific fact, that it's an ever-shifting, concatenating idea and one that changes over time. so that when we begin to grapple with the ideas of artificial intelligence in the future, we shouldn't only be asking ourselves, "can we build it?" but we should also be asking ourselves, "what idea of the human do we want to have reflected back to us?" this is an essentially philosophical idea, and it's one that can't be answered with software alone, but i think requires a moment of species-wide, existential reflection.thank you. <title = "How I turned a deadly plant into a thriving business">
<tags = "['Africa', 'agriculture', 'botany', 'business', 'creativity', 'environment', 'green', 'innovation', 'materials', 'nature', 'plants', 'potential', 'product design', 'sustainability', 'water', 'women in business']">
<occupation = "Green entrepreneur">
welcome to bayeku, a riverine community in ikorodu, lagos — a vivid representation of several riverine communities across nigeria, communities whose waterways have been infested by an invasive aquatic weed; communities where economic livelihoods have been hampered: fishing, marine transportation and trading; communities where fish yields have diminished; communities where schoolchildren are unable to go to school for days, sometimes weeks, on end. who would have thought that this plant with round leaves, inflated stems, and showy, lavender flowers would cause such havoc in these communities.the plant is known as water hyacinth and its botanical name, eichhornia crassipes. interestingly, in nigeria, the plant is also known by other names, names associated with historical events, as well as myths. in some places, the plant is called babangida. when you hear babangida, you remember the military and military coups. and you think: fear, restraint. in parts of nigeria in the niger delta, the plant is also known as abiola. when you hear abiola, you remember annulled elections and you think: dashed hopes. in the southwestern part of nigeria, the plant is known as gbe'borun. gbe'borun is a yoruba phrase which translates to "gossip," or "talebearer." when you think of gossip, you think: rapid reproduction, destruction. and in the igala-speaking part of nigeria, the plant is known as a kp'iye kp'oma, and when you hear that, you think of death. it literally translates to "death to mother and child."i personally had my encounter with this plant in the year 2009. it was shortly after i had relocated from the us to nigeria. i'd quit my job in corporate america and decided to take this big leap of faith, a leap of faith that came out of a deep sense of conviction that there was a lot of work to do in nigeria in the area of sustainable development. and so here i was in the year 2009, actually, at the end of 2009, in lagos on the third mainland bridge.and i looked to my left and saw this very arresting image. it was an image of fishing boats that had been hemmed in by dense mats of water hyacinth. and i was really pained by what i saw because i thought to myself, "these poor fisherfolk, how are they going to go about their daily activities with these restrictions." and then i thought, "there's got to be a better way." a win-win solution whereby the environment is taken care of by the weeds being cleared out of the way and then this being turned into an economic benefit for the communities whose lives are impacted the most by the infestation of the weed. that, i would say, was my spark moment.and so i did further research to find out more about the beneficial uses of this weed. out of the several, one struck me the most. it was the use of the plant for handicrafts. and i thought, "what a great idea." personally, i love handicrafts, especially handicrafts that are woven around a story. and so i thought, "this could be easily deployed within the communities without the requirement of technical skills." and i thought to myself, "three simple steps to a mega solution."first step: get out into the waterways and harvest the water hyacinth. that way, you create access.secondly, you dry the water hyacinth stems.and thirdly, you weave the water hyacinth into products.the third step was a challenge. see, i'm a computer scientist by background and not someone in the creative arts. and so i began my quest to find out how i can learn how to weave.and this quest took me to a community in ibadan, where i lived, called sabo. sabo translates to "strangers' quarters." and the community is predominantly made up of people from the northern part of the country. so i literally took my dried weeds in hand, there were several more of them, and went knocking from door to door to find out who could teach me how to weave these water hyacinth stems into ropes. and i was directed to the shed of malam yahaya. the problem, though, is that malam yahaya doesn't speak english and neither did i speak hausa. but some little kids came to the rescue and helped translate. and that began my journey of learning how to weave and transform these dried water hyacinth stems into long ropes.with my long ropes in hand, i was now equipped to make products. and that was the beginning of partnerships. working with rattan basket makers to come up with products. so with this in hand, i felt confident that i would be able to take this knowledge back into the riverine communities and help them to transform their adversity into prosperity. so taking these weeds and actually weaving them into products that can be sold. so we have pens, we have tableware, we have purses, we have tissue boxes. thereby, helping the communities to see water hyacinth in a different light. seeing water hyacinth as being valuable, being aesthetic, being durable, tough, resilient. changing names, changing livelihoods.from gbe'borun, gossip, to olusotan, storyteller. and from a kp'iye kp'oma, which is "killer of mother and child," to ya du j'ewn w'iye kp'oma, "provider of food for mother and child."and i'd like to end with a quote by michael margolis. he said, "if you want to learn about a culture, listen to the stories. and if you want to change a culture, change the stories."and so, from makoko community, to abobiri, to ewoi, to kolo, to owahwa, esaba, we have changed the story.thank you for listening. <title = "The unheard story of the Sistine Chapel">
<tags = "['Christianity', 'God', 'art', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'culture', 'history', 'museums', 'painting', 'religion', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Art historian">
imagine you're in rome, and you've made your way to the vatican museums. and you've been shuffling down long corridors, past statues, frescoes, lots and lots of stuff. you're heading towards the sistine chapel. at last — a long corridor, a stair and a door. you're at the threshold of the sistine chapel.so what are you expecting? soaring domes? choirs of angels? we don't really have any of that there. instead, you may ask yourself, what do we have?well, curtains up on the sistine chapel. and i mean literally, you're surrounded by painted curtains, the original decoration of this chapel. churches used tapestries not just to keep out cold during long masses, but as a way to represent the great theater of life. the human drama in which each one of us plays a part is a great story, a story that encompasses the whole world and that came to unfold in the three stages of the painting in the sistine chapel.now, this building started out as a space for a small group of wealthy, educated christian priests. they prayed there. they elected their pope there. five hundred years ago, it was the ultimate ecclesiastical man cave. so, you may ask, how can it be that today it attracts and delights five million people a year, from all different backgrounds? because in that compressed space, there was a creative explosion, ignited by the electric excitement of new geopolitical frontiers, which set on fire the ancient missionary tradition of the church and produced one of the greatest works of art in history.now, this development took place as a great evolution, moving from the beginning of a few elite, and eventually able to speak to audiences of people that come from all over the world. this evolution took place in three stages, each one linked to a historical circumstance. the first one was rather limited in scope. it reflected the rather parochial perspective. the second one took place after worldviews were dramatically altered after columbus's historical voyage; and the third, when the age of discovery was well under way and the church rose to the challenge of going global.the original decoration of this church reflected a smaller world. there were busy scenes that told the stories of the lives of jesus and moses, reflecting the development of the jewish and christian people. the man who commissioned this, pope sixtus iv, assembled a dream team of florentine art, including men like sandro botticelli and the man who would become michelangelo's future painting teacher, ghirlandaio. these men, they blanketed the walls with a frieze of pure color, and in these stories you'll notice familiar landscapes, the artists using roman monuments or a tuscan landscape to render a faraway story, something much more familiar. with the addition of images of the pope's friends and family, this was a perfect decoration for a small court limited to the european continent. but in 1492, the new world was discovered, horizons were expanding, and this little 133 by 46-foot microcosm had to expand as well. and it did, thanks to a creative genius, a visionary and an awesome story.now, the creative genius was michelangelo buonarroti, 33 years old when he was tapped to decorate 12,000 square feet of ceiling, and the deck was stacked against him — he had trained in painting but had left to pursue sculpture. there were angry patrons in florence because he had left a stack of incomplete commissions, lured to rome by the prospect of a great sculptural project, and that project had fallen through. and he had been left with a commission to paint 12 apostles against a decorative background in the sistine chapel ceiling, which would look like every other ceiling in italy.but genius rose to the challenge. in an age when a man dared to sail across the atlantic ocean, michelangelo dared to chart new artistic waters. he, too, would tell a story — no apostles — but a story of great beginnings, the story of genesis.not really an easy sell, stories on a ceiling. how would you be able to read a busy scene from 62 feet below? the painting technique that had been handed on for 200 years in florentine studios was not equipped for this kind of a narrative.but michelangelo wasn't really a painter, and so he played to his strengths. instead of being accustomed to filling space with busyness, he took a hammer and chisel and hacked away at a piece of marble to reveal the figure within. michelangelo was an essentialist; he would tell his story in massive, dynamic bodies.this plan was embraced by the larger-than-life pope julius ii, a man who was unafraid of michelangelo's brazen genius. he was nephew to pope sixtus iv, and he had been steeped in art for 30 years and he knew its power. and history has handed down the moniker of the warrior pope, but this man's legacy to the vatican — it wasn't fortresses and artillery, it was art. he left us the raphael rooms, the sistine chapel. he left st. peter's basilica as well as an extraordinary collection of greco-roman sculptures — decidedly un-christian works that would become the seedbed of the world's first modern museum, the vatican museums. julius was a man who envisioned a vatican that would be eternally relevant through grandeur and through beauty, and he was right. the encounter between these two giants, michelangelo and julius ii, that's what gave us the sistine chapel. michelangelo was so committed to this project, that he succeeded in getting the job done in three and a half years, using a skeleton crew and spending most of the time, hours on end, reaching up above his head to paint the stories on the ceiling.so let's look at this ceiling and see storytelling gone global. no more familiar artistic references to the world around you. there's just space and structure and energy; a monumental painted framework which opens onto nine panels, more driven by sculptural form than painterly color. and we stand in the far end by the entrance, far from the altar and from the gated enclosure intended for the clergy and we peer into the distance, looking for a beginning. and whether in scientific inquiry or in biblical tradition, we think in terms of a primal spark. michelangelo gave us an initial energy when he gave us the separation of light and dark, a churning figure blurry in the distance, compressed into a tight space. the next figure looms larger, and you see a figure hurtling from one side to the next. he leaves in his wake the sun, the moon, vegetation. michelangelo didn't focus on the stuff that was being created, unlike all the other artists. he focused on the act of creation.and then the movement stops, like a caesura in poetry and the creator hovers. so what's he doing? is he creating land? is he creating sea? or is he looking back over his handiwork, the universe and his treasures, just like michelangelo must have, looking back over his work in the ceiling and proclaiming, "it is good."so now the scene is set, and you get to the culmination of creation, which is man. adam leaps to the eye, a light figure against a dark background. but looking closer, that leg is pretty languid on the ground, the arm is heavy on the knee. adam lacks that interior spark that will impel him to greatness. that spark is about to be conferred by the creator in that finger, which is one millimeter from the hand of adam. it puts us at the edge of our seats, because we're one moment from that contact, through which that man will discover his purpose, leap up and take his place at the pinnacle of creation.and then michelangelo threw a curveball. who is in that other arm? eve, first woman. no, she's not an afterthought. she's part of the plan. she's always been in his mind. look at her, so intimate with god that her hand curls around his arm. and for me, an american art historian from the 21st century, this was the moment that the painting spoke to me. because i realized that this representation of the human drama was always about men and women — so much so, that the dead center, the heart of the ceiling, is the creation of woman, not adam. and the fact is, that when you see them together in the garden of eden, they fall together and together their proud posture turns into folded shame.you are at critical juncture now in the ceiling. you are exactly at the point where you and i can go no further into the church. the gated enclosure keeps us out of the inner sanctum, and we are cast out much like adam and eve. the remaining scenes in the ceiling, they mirror the crowded chaos of the world around us. you have noah and his ark and the flood. you have noah. he's making a sacrifice and a covenant with god. maybe he's the savior. oh, but no, noah is the one who grew grapes, invented wine, got drunk and passed out naked in his barn. it is a curious way to design the ceiling, now starting out with god creating life, ending up with some guy blind drunk in a barn. and so, compared with adam, you might think michelangelo is making fun of us.but he's about to dispel the gloom by using those bright colors right underneath noah: emerald, topaz, scarlet on the prophet zechariah. zechariah foresees a light coming from the east, and we are turned at this juncture to a new destination, with sibyls and prophets who will lead us on a parade. you have the heroes and heroines who make safe the way, and we follow the mothers and fathers. they are the motors of this great human engine, driving it forward.and now we're at the keystone of the ceiling, the culmination of the whole thing, with a figure that looks like he's about to fall out of his space into our space, encroaching our space.this is the most important juncture. past meets present. this figure, jonah, who spent three days in the belly of the whale, for the christians, is the symbol of the renewal of humanity through jesus' sacrifice, but for the multitudes of visitors to that museum from all faiths who visit there every day, he is the moment the distant past encounters and meets immediate reality.all of this brings us to the yawning archway of the altar wall, where we see michelangelo's last judgment, painted in 1534 after the world had changed again. the reformation had splintered the church, the ottoman empire had made islam a household word and magellan had found a route into the pacific ocean. how is a 59-year-old artist who has never been any further than venice going to speak to this new world? michelangelo chose to paint destiny, that universal desire, common to all of us, to leave a legacy of excellence. told in terms of the christian vision of the last judgment, the end of the world, michelangelo gave you a series of figures who are wearing these strikingly beautiful bodies. they have no more covers, no more portraits except for a couple. it's a composition only out of bodies, 391, no two alike, unique like each and every one of us. they start in the lower corner, breaking away from the ground, struggling and trying to rise. those who have risen reach back to help others, and in one amazing vignette, you have a black man and a white man pulled up together in an incredible vision of human unity in this new world. the lion's share of the space goes to the winner's circle. there you find men and women completely nude like athletes. they are the ones who have overcome adversity, and michelangelo's vision of people who combat adversity, overcome obstacles — they're just like athletes. so you have men and women flexing and posing in this extraordinary spotlight. presiding over this assembly is jesus, first a suffering man on the cross, now a glorious ruler in heaven. and as michelangelo proved in his painting, hardship, setbacks and obstacles, they don't limit excellence, they forge it.now, this does lead us to one odd thing. this is the pope's private chapel, and the best way you can describe that is indeed a stew of nudes. but michelangelo was trying to use only the best artistic language, the most universal artistic language he could think of: that of the human body. and so instead of the way of showing virtue such as fortitude or self-mastery, he borrowed from julius ii's wonderful collection of sculptures in order to show inner strength as external power.now, one contemporary did write that the chapel was too beautiful to not cause controversy. and so it did. michelangelo soon found that thanks to the printing press, complaints about the nudity spread all over the place, and soon his masterpiece of human drama was labeled pornography, at which point he added two more portraits, one of the man who criticized him, a papal courtier, and the other one of himself as a dried up husk, no athlete, in the hands of a long-suffering martyr. the year he died he saw several of these figures covered over, a triumph for trivial distractions over his great exhortation to glory.and so now we stand in the here and now. we are caught in that space between beginnings and endings, in the great, huge totality of the human experience. the sistine chapel forces us to look around as if it were a mirror. who am i in this picture? am i one of the crowd? am i the drunk guy? am i the athlete? and as we leave this haven of uplifting beauty, we are inspired to ask ourselves life's biggest questions: who am i, and what role do i play in this great theater of life?thank you. bruno giussani: elizabeth lev, thank you.elizabeth, you mentioned this whole issue of pornography, too many nudes and too many daily life scenes and improper things in the eyes of the time. but actually the story is bigger. it's not just touching up and covering up some of the figures. this work of art was almost destroyed because of that.elizabeth lev: the effect of the last judgment was enormous. the printing press made sure that everybody saw it. and so, this wasn't something that happened within a couple of weeks. it was something that happened over the space of 20 years of editorials and complaints, saying to the church, "you can't possibly tell us how to live our lives. did you notice you have pornography in the pope's chapel?" and so after complaints and insistence of trying to get this work destroyed, it was finally the year that michelangelo died that the church finally found a compromise, a way to save the painting, and that was in putting up these extra 30 covers, and that happens to be the origin of fig-leafing. that's where it all came about, and it came about from a church that was trying to save a work of art, not indeed deface or destroyed it.bg: this, what you just gave us, is not the classic tour that people get today when they go to the sistine chapel. el: i don't know, is that an ad? bg: no, no, no, not necessarily, it is a statement. the experience of art today is encountering problems. too many people want to see this there, and the result is five million people going through that tiny door and experiencing it in a completely different way than we just did.el: right. i agree. i think it's really nice to be able to pause and look. but also realize, even when you're in those days, with 28,000 people a day, even those days when you're in there with all those other people, look around you and think how amazing it is that some painted plaster from 500 years ago can still draw all those people standing side by side with you, looking upwards with their jaws dropped. it's a great statement about how beauty truly can speak to us all through time and through geographic space.bg: liz, grazie.el: grazie a te.bg: thank you. <title = "Capitalism will eat democracy -- unless we speak up">
<tags = "['Europe', 'United States', 'activism', 'big problems', 'business', 'capitalism', 'democracy', 'economics', 'finance', 'global issues', 'government', 'investment', 'money', 'politics', 'society']">
<occupation = "Economist and professor">
democracy. in the west, we make a colossal mistake taking it for granted. we see democracy not as the most fragile of flowers that it really is, but we see it as part of our society's furniture. we tend to think of it as an intransigent given. we mistakenly believe that capitalism begets inevitably democracy. it doesn't.singapore's lee kuan yew and his great imitators in beijing have demonstrated beyond reasonable doubt that it is perfectly possible to have a flourishing capitalism, spectacular growth, while politics remains democracy-free. indeed, democracy is receding in our neck of the woods, here in europe.earlier this year, while i was representing greece — the newly elected greek government — in the eurogroup as its finance minister, i was told in no uncertain terms that our nation's democratic process — our elections — could not be allowed to interfere with economic policies that were being implemented in greece. at that moment, i felt that there could be no greater vindication of lee kuan yew, or the chinese communist party, indeed of some recalcitrant friends of mine who kept telling me that democracy would be banned if it ever threatened to change anything.tonight, here, i want to present to you an economic case for an authentic democracy. i want to ask you to join me in believing again that lee kuan yew, the chinese communist party and indeed the eurogroup are wrong in believing that we can dispense with democracy — that we need an authentic, boisterous democracy. and without democracy, our societies will be nastier, our future bleak and our great, new technologies wasted.speaking of waste, allow me to point out an interesting paradox that is threatening our economies as we speak. i call it the twin peaks paradox. one peak you understand — you know it, you recognize it — is the mountain of debts that has been casting a long shadow over the united states, europe, the whole world. we all recognize the mountain of debts. but few people discern its twin. a mountain of idle cash belonging to rich savers and to corporations, too terrified to invest it into the productive activities that can generate the incomes from which you can extinguish the mountain of debts and which can produce all those things that humanity desperately needs, like green energy.now let me give you two numbers. over the last three months, in the united states, in britain and in the eurozone, we have invested, collectively, 3.4 trillion dollars on all the wealth-producing goods — things like industrial plants, machinery, office blocks, schools, roads, railways, machinery, and so on and so forth. $3.4 trillion sounds like a lot of money until you compare it to the $5.1 trillion that has been slushing around in the same countries, in our financial institutions, doing absolutely nothing during the same period except inflating stock exchanges and bidding up house prices.so a mountain of debt and a mountain of idle cash form twin peaks, failing to cancel each other out through the normal operation of the markets.the result is stagnant wages, more than a quarter of 25- to 54-year-olds in america, in japan and in europe out of work. and consequently, low aggregate demand, which in a never-ending cycle, reinforces the pessimism of the investors, who, fearing low demand, reproduce it by not investing — exactly like oedipus' father, who, terrified by the prophecy of the oracle that his son would grow up to kill him, unwittingly engineered the conditions that ensured that oedipus, his son, would kill him.this is my quarrel with capitalism. its gross wastefulness, all this idle cash, should be energized to improve lives, to develop human talents, and indeed to finance all these technologies, green technologies, which are absolutely essential for saving planet earth.am i right in believing that democracy might be the answer? i believe so, but before we move on, what do we mean by democracy? aristotle defined democracy as the constitution in which the free and the poor, being in the majority, control government.now, of course athenian democracy excluded too many. women, migrants and, of course, the slaves. but it would be a mistake to dismiss the significance of ancient athenian democracy on the basis of whom it excluded.what was more pertinent, and continues to be so about ancient athenian democracy, was the inclusion of the working poor, who not only acquired the right to free speech, but more importantly, crucially, they acquired the rights to political judgments that were afforded equal weight in the decision-making concerning matters of state. now, of course, athenian democracy didn't last long. like a candle that burns brightly, it burned out quickly. and indeed, our liberal democracies today do not have their roots in ancient athens. they have their roots in the magna carta, in the 1688 glorious revolution, indeed in the american constitution. whereas athenian democracy was focusing on the masterless citizen and empowering the working poor, our liberal democracies are founded on the magna carta tradition, which was, after all, a charter for masters. and indeed, liberal democracy only surfaced when it was possible to separate fully the political sphere from the economic sphere, so as to confine the democratic process fully in the political sphere, leaving the economic sphere — the corporate world, if you want — as a democracy-free zone.now, in our democracies today, this separation of the economic from the political sphere, the moment it started happening, it gave rise to an inexorable, epic struggle between the two, with the economic sphere colonizing the political sphere, eating into its power.have you wondered why politicians are not what they used to be? it's not because their dna has degenerated. it is rather because one can be in government today and not in power, because power has migrated from the political to the economic sphere, which is separate.indeed, i spoke about my quarrel with capitalism. if you think about it, it is a little bit like a population of predators, that are so successful in decimating the prey that they must feed on, that in the end they starve.similarly, the economic sphere has been colonizing and cannibalizing the political sphere to such an extent that it is undermining itself, causing economic crisis. corporate power is increasing, political goods are devaluing, inequality is rising, aggregate demand is falling and ceos of corporations are too scared to invest the cash of their corporations.so the more capitalism succeeds in taking the demos out of democracy, the taller the twin peaks and the greater the waste of human resources and humanity's wealth.clearly, if this is right, we must reunite the political and economic spheres and better do it with a demos being in control, like in ancient athens except without the slaves or the exclusion of women and migrants.now, this is not an original idea. the marxist left had that idea 100 years ago and it didn't go very well, did it?the lesson that we learned from the soviet debacle is that only by a miracle will the working poor be reempowered, as they were in ancient athens, without creating new forms of brutality and waste.but there is a solution: eliminate the working poor. capitalism's doing it by replacing low-wage workers with automata, androids, robots. the problem is that as long as the economic and the political spheres are separate, automation makes the twin peaks taller, the waste loftier and the social conflicts deeper, including — soon, i believe — in places like china.so we need to reconfigure, we need to reunite the economic and the political spheres, but we'd better do it by democratizing the reunified sphere, lest we end up with a surveillance-mad hyperautocracy that makes the matrix, the movie, look like a documentary. so the question is not whether capitalism will survive the technological innovations it is spawning. the more interesting question is whether capitalism will be succeeded by something resembling a matrix dystopia or something much closer to a star trek-like society, where machines serve the humans and the humans expend their energies exploring the universe and indulging in long debates about the meaning of life in some ancient, athenian-like, high tech agora.i think we can afford to be optimistic. but what would it take, what would it look like to have this star trek-like utopia, instead of the matrix-like dystopia?in practical terms, allow me to share just briefly, a couple of examples.at the level of the enterprise, imagine a capital market, where you earn capital as you work, and where your capital follows you from one job to another, from one company to another, and the company — whichever one you happen to work at at that time — is solely owned by those who happen to work in it at that moment. then all income stems from capital, from profits, and the very concept of wage labor becomes obsolete. no more separation between those who own but do not work in the company and those who work but do not own the company; no more tug-of-war between capital and labor; no great gap between investment and saving; indeed, no towering twin peaks.at the level of the global political economy, imagine for a moment that our national currencies have a free-floating exchange rate, with a universal, global, digital currency, one that is issued by the international monetary fund, the g-20, on behalf of all humanity. and imagine further that all international trade is denominated in this currency — let's call it "the cosmos," in units of cosmos — with every government agreeing to be paying into a common fund a sum of cosmos units proportional to the country's trade deficit, or indeed to a country's trade surplus. and imagine that that fund is utilized to invest in green technologies, especially in parts of the world where investment funding is scarce.this is not a new idea. it's what, effectively, john maynard keynes proposed in 1944 at the bretton woods conference. the problem is that back then, they didn't have the technology to implement it. now we do, especially in the context of a reunified political-economic sphere.the world that i am describing to you is simultaneously libertarian, in that it prioritizes empowered individuals, marxist, since it will have confined to the dustbin of history the division between capital and labor, and keynesian, global keynesian. but above all else, it is a world in which we will be able to imagine an authentic democracy.will such a world dawn? or shall we descend into a matrix-like dystopia? the answer lies in the political choice that we shall be making collectively. it is our choice, and we'd better make it democratically.thank you. bruno giussani: yanis ... it was you who described yourself in your bios as a libertarian marxist. what is the relevance of marx's analysis today?yanis varoufakis: well, if there was any relevance in what i just said, then marx is relevant. because the whole point of reunifying the political and economic is — if we don't do it, then technological innovation is going to create such a massive fall in aggregate demand,what larry summers refers to as secular stagnation. with this crisis migrating from one part of the world, as it is now, it will destabilize not only our democracies, but even the emerging world that is not that keen on liberal democracy. so if this analysis holds water, then marx is absolutely relevant. but so is hayek, that's why i'm a libertarian marxist, and so is keynes, so that's why i'm totally confused. bg: indeed, and possibly we are too, now. yv: if you are not confused, you are not thinking, ok?bg: that's a very, very greek philosopher kind of thing to say —yv: that was einstein, actually —bg: during your talk you mentioned singapore and china, and last night at the speaker dinner, you expressed a pretty strong opinion about how the west looks at china. would you like to share that?yv: well, there's a great degree of hypocrisy. in our liberal democracies, we have a semblance of democracy. it's because we have confined, as i was saying in my talk, democracy to the political sphere, while leaving the one sphere where all the action is — the economic sphere — a completely democracy-free zone.in a sense, if i am allowed to be provocative, china today is closer to britain in the 19th century. because remember, we tend to associate liberalism with democracy — that's a mistake, historically. liberalism, liberal, it's like john stuart mill. john stuart mill was particularly skeptical about the democratic process. so what you are seeing now in china is a very similar process to the one that we had in britain during the industrial revolution, especially the transition from the first to the second. and to be castigating china for doing that which the west did in the 19th century, smacks of hypocrisy.bg: i am sure that many people here are wondering about your experience as the finance minister of greece earlier this year.yv: i knew this was coming.bg: yes.bg: six months after, how do you look back at the first half of the year?yv: extremely exciting, from a personal point of view, and very disappointing, because we had an opportunity to reboot the eurozone. not just greece, the eurozone. to move away from the complacency and the constant denial that there was a massive — and there is a massive architectural fault line going through the eurozone, which is threatening, massively, the whole of the european union process.we had an opportunity on the basis of the greek program — which by the way, was the first program to manifest that denial — to put it right. and, unfortunately, the powers in the eurozone, in the eurogroup, chose to maintain denial.but you know what happens. this is the experience of the soviet union. when you try to keep alive an economic system that architecturally cannot survive, through political will and through authoritarianism, you may succeed in prolonging it, but when change happens it happens very abruptly and catastrophically.bg: what kind of change are you foreseeing?yv: well, there's no doubt that if we don't change the architecture of the eurozone, the eurozone has no future.bg: did you make any mistakes when you were finance minister?yv: every day.bg: for example? yv: anybody who looks back — no, but seriously. if there's any minister of finance, or of anything else for that matter, who tells you after six months in a job, especially in such a stressful situation, that they have made no mistake, they're dangerous people. of course i made mistakes.the greatest mistake was to sign the application for the extension of a loan agreement in the end of february. i was imagining that there was a genuine interest on the side of the creditors to find common ground. and there wasn't. they were simply interested in crushing our government, just because they did not want to have to deal with the architectural fault lines that were running through the eurozone. and because they didn't want to admit that for five years they were implementing a catastrophic program in greece. we lost one-third of our nominal gdp. this is worse than the great depression. and no one has come clean from the troika of lenders that have been imposing this policy to say, "this was a colossal mistake."bg: despite all this, and despite the aggressiveness of the discussion, you seem to be remaining quite pro-european.yv: absolutely. look, my criticism of the european union and the eurozone comes from a person who lives and breathes europe. my greatest fear is that the eurozone will not survive. because if it doesn't, the centrifugal forces that will be unleashed will be demonic, and they will destroy the european union. and that will be catastrophic not just for europe but for the whole global economy.we are probably the largest economy in the world. and if we allow ourselves to fall into a route of the postmodern 1930's, which seems to me to be what we are doing, then that will be detrimental to the future of europeans and non-europeans alike.bg: we definitely hope you are wrong on that point. yanis, thank you for coming to ted.yv: thank you. <title = "Glow-in-the-dark sharks and other stunning sea creatures">
<tags = "['adventure', 'beauty', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'environment', 'exploration', 'fish', 'life', 'mission blue', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'oceans', 'photography', 'science', 'submarine', 'water']">
<occupation = "Marine biologist, explorer-photographer">
i'm a marine biologist and an explorer-photographer with national geographic, but i want to share a secret. this image is totally incorrect, totally incorrect. i see a couple of people crying in the back that i've blown their idea of mermaids. all right, the mermaid is indeed real, but anyone who's gone on a dive will know that the ocean looks more like this. it's because the ocean is this massive filter, and as soon as you start going underwater, you're going to lose your colors, and it's going to get dark and blue very quickly.but we're humans — we're terrestrial mammals. and we've got trichromatic vision, so we see in red, green and blue, and we're just complete color addicts. we love eye-popping color, and we try to bring this eye-popping color underwater with us.so there's been a long and sordid history of bringing color underwater, and it starts 88 years ago with bill longley and charles martin, who were trying to take the first underwater color photograph. and they're in there with old-school scuba suits, where you're pumping air down to them, and they've got a pontoon of high-explosive magnesium powder, and the poor people at the surface are not sure when they're going to pull the string when they've got their frame in focus, and — boom! — a pound of high explosives would go off so they could put a little bit of light underwater and get an image like this beautiful hogfish. i mean, it's a gorgeous image, but this is not real. they're creating an artificial environment so we can satisfy our own addiction to color.and looking at it the other way, what we've been finding is that instead of bringing color underwater with us, that we've been looking at the blue ocean, and it's a crucible of blue, and these animals living there for millions of years have been evolving all sorts of ways to take in that blue light and give off other colors. and here's just a little sample of what this secret world looks like. it's like an underwater light show.(music)again, what we're seeing here is blue light hitting this image. these animals are absorbing the blue light and immediately transforming this light.so if you think about it, the ocean is 71 percent of the planet, and blue light can extend down to almost a 1,000 meters. as we go down underwater, after about 10 meters, all the red is gone. so if you see anything under 10 meters that's red, it's an animal transforming and creating its own red. this is the largest single monochromatic blue environment on our planet.and my gateway into this world of biofluorescence begins with corals. and i want to give a full ted talk on corals and just how cool these things are. one of the things that they do, one of their miraculous feats, is they produce lots of these fluorescent proteins, fluorescent molecules. and in this coral, it could be making up to 14 percent of its body mass — could be this fluorescent protein. so you wouldn't be making, like, 14 percent muscle and not using it, so it's likely doing something that has a functional role. and for the last 10, 15 years, this was so special to me, because this molecule has turned out to be one of the most revolutionary tools in biomedical science, and it's allowing us to better see inside ourselves.so, how do i study this? in order to study biofluorescence, we swim at night. and when i started out, i was just using these blue duct-tape filters over my strobe, so i could make sure i'm actually seeing the light that's being transformed by the animals. we're making an exhibit for the museum of natural history, and we're trying to show off how great the fluorescent corals are on the reef, and something happened that just blew me away: this. in the middle of our corals, is this green fluorescent fish. it's the first time we've ever seen a green fluorescent fish or any vertebrate for that matter. and we're rubbing our eyes, checking the filters, thinking that somebody's maybe playing a joke on us with the camera, but the eel was real.it was the first green fluorescent eel that we found, and this just changed my trajectory completely. so i had to put down my corals and team up with a fish scientist, john sparks, and begin a search around the world to see how prevalent this phenomenon is. and fish are much more interesting than corals, because they have really advanced vision, and some of the fish even have, the way that i was photographing it, they have lenses in their eyes that would magnify the fluorescence. so i wanted to seek this out further.so we designed a new set of gear and we're scouring the reefs around the world, looking for fluorescent life. and it's a bit like "e.t. phone home." we're out there swimming with this blue light, and we're looking for a response, for animals to be absorbing the light and transferring this back to us. and eventually, we found our photobombing kaupichphys eel. it's a really shy, reclusive eel that we know almost nothing about. they're only about the size of my finger, and they spend about 99.9 percent of their time hidden under a rock. but these eels do come out to mate under full-moon nights, and that full-moon night translates underwater to blue. perhaps they're using this as a way to see each other, quickly find each other, mate, go back into their hole for the next long stint of time. but then we started to find other fluorescent marine life, like this green fluorescent bream, with its, like, racing stripes along its head and its nape, and it's almost camouflaged and fluorescing at the same intensity as the fluorescent coral there.after this fish, we were introduced to this red fluorescent scorpionfish cloaked and hidden on this rock. the only time we've ever seen this, it's either on red fluorescent algae or red fluorescent coral.later, we found this stealthy green fluorescent lizardfish. these lizardfish come in many varieties, and they look almost exactly alike under white light. but if you look at them under fluorescent light, you see lots of patterns, you can really see the differences among them. and in total — we just reported this last year — we found over 200 species of biofluorescent fish.one of my inspirations is french artist and biologist jean painlevé. he really captures this entrepreneuring, creative spirit in biology. he would design his own gear, make his own cameras, and he was fascinated with the seahorse, hippocampus erectus, and he filmed for the first time the seahorse giving birth. so this is the male seahorse. they were one of the first fish to start swimming upright with their brain above their head. the males give birth, just phenomenal creatures. so he stayed awake for days. he even put this electrical visor on his head that would shock him, so he could capture this moment. now, i wish i could have shown painlevé the moment where we found biofluorescent seahorses in the exact same species that he was studying. and here's our footage.(music)they're the most cryptic fish. you could be swimming right on top of them and not see the seahorse. they would blend right into the algae, which would also fluoresce red, but they've got great vision, and they go through this long mating ritual, and perhaps they're using it in that effect.but things got pretty edgy when we found green fluorescence in the stingray, because stingrays are in the elasmobranch class, which includes ... sharks. so i'm, like, a coral biologist. somebody's got to go down and check to see if the sharks are fluorescent. and there i am. and i was like, "maybe i should go back to corals." it turns out that these sharks are not fluorescent. and then we found it. in a deep, dark canyon off the coast of california, we found the first biofluorescent swellshark, right underneath all the surfers. here it is. they're just about a meter long. it's called a swellshark. and they call them a swellshark because if they're threatened, they can gulp down water and blow up like an inner tube, about twice their size, and wedge themselves under a rock, so they don't get eaten by a predator. and here is our first footage of these biofluorescent swellsharks. just magnificent — i mean, they're showing these distinct patterns, and there are areas that are fluorescent and areas that are not fluorescent, but they've also got these twinkling spots on them that are much brighter than other parts of the shark.but this is all beautiful to see. i was like, this is gorgeous. but what does it mean to the shark? can they see this? and we looked in the literature, and nothing was known about this shark's vision. so i took this shark to eye specialist ellis loew at cornell university, and we found out that this shark sees discretely and acutely in the blue-green interface, probably about 100 times better than we can see in the dark, but they only see blue-green. so what it's doing is taking this blue world and it's absorbing the blue, creating green. it's creating contrast that they can indeed see. so we have a model, showing that it creates an ability for them to see all these patterns. and males and females also have, we're finding, distinct patterns among them.but our last find came really just a few miles from where we are now, in the solomon islands. swimming at night, i encountered the first biofluorescent sea turtle. so now it's going from fish and sharks into reptiles, which, again, this is only one month old, but it shows us that we know almost nothing about this hawksbill turtle's vision. and it makes me think about how much more there is to learn. and here in the solomon islands, there's only a few thousand breeding females of this species left, and this is one of the hotspots for them. so it shows us how much we need to really protect these animals while they're still here, and understand them.in thinking about biofluorescence, i wanted to know, how deep does it go? does this go all the way to the bottom of the ocean? so we started using submarines, and we equipped them with special blue lights on the front here. and we dropped down, and we noticed one important thing — that as we get down to 1,000 meters, it drops off. there's no biofluorescent marine life down there, below 1,000 meters — almost nothing, it's just darkness. so it's mainly a shallow phenomenon. and below 1,000 meters, we encountered the bioluminescent zone, where nine out of 10 animals are actually making their own lights and flashing and blinking.as i try to get deeper, this is slapping on a one-person submarine suit — some people call this my "jacques cousteau meets woody allen" moment. but as we explore down here, i was thinking about: how do we interact with life delicately? because we're entering a new age of exploration, where we have to take great care, and we have to set examples how we explore. so i've teamed up with roboticist rob wood at harvard university, and we've been designing squishy underwater robot fingers, so we can delicately interact with the marine life down there. the idea is that most of our technologies to explore the deep ocean come from oil and gas and military, who, you know, they're not really caring to be gentle. some corals could be 1,000 years old. you don't want to just go and crush them with a big claw. so my dream is something like this. at night, i'm in a submarine, i have force-feedback gloves, and i could delicately set up a lab in the front of my submarine, where the squishy robot fingers are delicately collecting and putting things in jars, and we can conduct our research.back to the powerful applied applications. here, you're looking at a living brain that's using the dna of fluorescent marine creatures, this one from jellyfish and corals, to illuminate the living brain and see its connections. it's funny that we're using rgb just to kind of satisfy our own human intuition, so we can see our brains better. and even more mind-blowing, is my close colleague vincent pieribone at yale, who has actually designed and engineered a fluorescent protein that responds to voltage. so he could see when a single neuron fires. you're essentially looking at a portal into consciousness that was designed by marine creatures.so this brings me all back to perspective and relationship. from deep space, our universe looks like a human brain cell, and then here we are in the deep ocean, and we're finding marine creatures and cells that can illuminate the human mind. and it's my hope that with illuminated minds, we could ponder the overarching interconnectedness of all life, and fathom how much more lies in store if we keep our oceans healthy.thank you. <title = "Should you be able to patent a human gene?">
<tags = "['Debate', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'biotech', 'cancer', 'genetics', 'government', 'health', 'health care', 'innovation', 'law', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'nature', 'pharmaceuticals', 'policy', 'public health', 'science', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Policy expert">
it was an afternoon in the fall of 2005. i was working at the aclu as the organization's science advisor. i really, really loved my job, but i was having one of those days where i was feeling just a little bit discouraged.so i wandered down the hallway to my colleague chris hansen's office. chris had been at the aclu for more than 30 years, so he had deep institutional knowledge and insights.i explained to chris that i was feeling a little bit stuck. i had been investigating a number of issues at the intersection of science and civil liberties — super interesting. but i wanted the aclu to engage these issues in a much bigger way, in a way that could really make a difference.so chris cut right to the chase, and he says, "well, of all the issues you've been looking at, what are the top five?""well, there's genetic discrimination, and reproductive technologies, and biobanking, and ... oh, there's this really cool issue, functional mri and using it for lie detection, and ... oh, and of course, there's gene patents.""gene patents?""yes, you know, patents on human genes.""no! you're telling me that the us government has been issuing patents on part of the human body? that can't be right."i went back to my office and sent chris three articles. and 20 minutes later, he came bursting in my office. "oh my god! you're right! who can we sue?" now chris is a really brilliant lawyer, but he knew almost nothing about patent law and certainly nothing about genetics. i knew something about genetics, but i wasn't even a lawyer, let alone a patent lawyer. so clearly we had a lot to learn before we could file a lawsuit.first, we needed to understand exactly what was patented when someone patented a gene. gene patents typically contain dozens of claims, but the most controversial of these are to so-called "isolated dna" — namely, a piece of dna that has been removed from a cell.gene patent proponents say, "see? we didn't patent the gene in your body, we patented an isolated gene." and that's true, but the problem is that any use of the gene requires that it be isolated. and the patents weren't just to a particular gene that they isolated, but on every possible version of that gene.so what does that mean?that means that you can't give your gene to your doctor and ask him or her to look at it, say, to see if it has any mutations, without permission of the patent holder. it also means that the patent holder has the right to stop anyone from using that gene in research or clinical testing. allowing patent holders, often private companies, to lock up stretches of the human genome was harming patients.consider abigail, a 10-year-old with long qt syndrome, a serious heart condition that, if left untreated, can result in sudden death. the company that obtained a patent on two genes associated with this condition developed a test to diagnose the syndrome. but then they went bankrupt and they never offered it. so another lab tried to offer the test, but the company that held the patents threatened to sue the lab for patent infringement. so as a result, for 2 years, no test was available. during that time, abigail died of undiagnosed long qt.gene patents clearly were a problem and were harming patients. but was there a way we could challenge them?turns out that the supreme court has made clear through a long line of cases, that certain things are not patent eligible. you can't patent products of nature — the air, the water, minerals, elements of the periodic table. and you can't patent laws of nature — the law of gravity, e = mc2. these things are just too fundamental and must remain free to all and reserved exclusively to none.it seemed to us that dna, the most fundamental structure of life, that codes for the production of all of our proteins, is both a product of nature and a law of nature, regardless of whether it's in our bodies or sitting in the bottom of a test tube.as we delved into this issue, we traveled all over the country to speak with many different experts — scientists, medical professionals, lawyers, patent lawyers. most of them agreed that we were right as a matter of policy, and, at least in theory, as a matter of law. all of them thought our chances of winning a gene-patent challenge were about zero.why is that? well, the patent office had been issuing these patents for more than 20 years. there were literally thousands of patents on human genes. the patent bar was deeply entrenched in the status quo, the biotech industry had grown up around this practice, and legislation to ban gene patents had been introduced year after year in congress, and had gone absolutely nowhere. so the bottom line: courts just weren't going to be willing to overturn these patents.now, neither chris nor i were the type to shy away from a challenge, and hearing, "being right just isn't enough," seemed all the more reason to take on this fight. so we set out to build our case.now, patent cases tend to be: company a sues company b over some really narrow, obscure technical issue. we weren't really interested in that kind of case, and we thought this case was much bigger than that. this was about scientific freedom, medical progress, the rights of patients. so we decided we were going to develop a case that was not like your typical patent case — more like a civil rights case.we set out to identify a gene-patent holder that was vigorously enforcing its patents and then to organize a broad coalition of plaintiffs and experts that could tell the court about all the ways that these patents were harming patients and innovation.we found the prime candidate to sue in myriad genetics, a company that's based in salt lake city, utah. myriad held patents on two genes, the brca1 and the brca2 genes. women with certain mutations along these genes are considered to be at a significantly increased risk of developing breast and ovarian cancer. myriad had used its patents to maintain a complete monopoly on brca testing in the united states. it had forced multiple labs that were offering brca testing to stop. it charged a lot of money for its test — over 3,000 dollars. it had stopped sharing its clinical data with the international scientific community. and perhaps worst of all, for a period of several years, myriad refused to update its test to include additional mutations that had been identified by a team of researchers in france.it has been estimated that during that period, for several years, as many as 12 percent of women undergoing testing received the wrong answer — a negative test result that should have been positive.this is kathleen maxian. kathleen's sister eileen developed breast cancer at age 40 and she was tested by myriad. the test was negative. the family was relieved. that meant that eileen's cancer most likely didn't run in the family, and that other members of her family didn't need to be tested. but two years later, kathleen was diagnosed with advanced-stage ovarian cancer. it turned out that kathleen's sister was among the 12 percent who received a false-negative test result. had eileen received the proper result, kathleen would have then been tested, and her ovarian cancer could have been prevented.once we settled on myriad, we then had to form a coalition of plaintiffs and experts that could illuminate these problems. we ended up with 20 highly committed plaintiffs: genetic counselors, geneticists who had received cease and desist letters, advocacy organizations, four major scientific organizations that collectively represented more than 150,000 scientists and medical professionals, and individual women who either couldn't afford myriad's test, or who wanted to obtain a second opinion but could not, as a result of the patents.one of the major challenges we had in preparing the case was figuring out how best to communicate the science. so in order to argue that what myriad did was not an invention, and that isolated brca genes were products of nature, we had to explain a couple of basic concepts, like: what's a gene? what's dna? how is dna isolated, and why isn't that an invention?we spent hours and hours with our plaintiffs and experts, trying to come up with ways of explaining these concepts simply yet accurately. and we ended up relying heavily on the use of metaphors, like gold.so isolating dna — it's like extracting gold from a mountain or taking it out of a stream bed. you might be able to patent the process for mining the gold, but you can't patent the gold itself. it might've taken a lot of hard work and effort to dig the gold out of the mountain; you still can't patent it, it's still gold. and the gold, once it's extracted, can clearly be used for all sorts of things that it couldn't be used for when it was in the mountain; you can make jewelry out of it for example — still can't patent the gold, it's still gold.so now it's 2009, and we're ready to file our case. we filed in federal court in the southern district of new york, and the case was randomly assigned to judge robert sweet. in march 2010, judge sweet issued his opinion — 152 pages — and a complete victory for our side.in reading the opinion, we could not get over how eloquently he described the science in the case. i mean, our brief — it was pretty good, but not this good. how did he develop such a deep understanding of this issue in such a short time? we just could not comprehend how this had happened. so it turned out, judge sweet's clerk working for him at the time, was not just a lawyer — he was a scientist. he was not just a scientist — he had a phd in molecular biology. what an incredible stroke of luck!myriad then appealed to the us court of appeals for the federal circuit. and here things got really interesting.first, in a pivotal moment of this case, the us government switched sides.so in the district court the government submitted a brief on myriad's side. but now in direct opposition to its own patent office, the us government files a brief that states that is has reconsidered this issue in light of the district court's opinion, and has concluded that isolated dna is not patent eligible. this was a really big deal, totally unexpected.the court of appeals for the federal circuit hears all patent cases, and it has a reputation for being very, very pro-patent. so even with this remarkable development, we expected to lose. and we did. sort of. ends up split decision, 2 to 1. but the two judges who ruled against us, did so for completely different reasons. the first one, judge lourie, made up his own novel, biological theory — totally wrong. he decided myriad had created a new chemical — made absolutely no sense. myriad didn't even argue this, so it came out of the blue. the other, judge moore, said she basically agreed with us that isolated dna is a product of nature. but she's like, "i don't want to shake up the biotech industry." the third, judge bryson, agreed with us.so now we sought review by the supreme court. and when you petition the supreme court, you have to present a question that you want the court to answer. usually these questions take the form of a super-long paragraph, like a whole page long with lots and lots of clauses, "wherein this" and "therefore that." we submitted perhaps the shortest question presented ever. four words: are human genes patentable?now when chris first asked me what i thought of these words, i said, "well, i don't know. i think you have to say, 'is isolated dna patentable?'""nope. i want the justices to have the very same reaction that i had when you brought this issue to me seven years ago."well, i certainly couldn't argue with that.the supreme court only hears about one percent of the cases that it receives, and it agreed to hear ours. the day of the oral argument arrives, and it was really, really exciting — long line of people outside, people had been standing in line since 2:30 in the morning to try to get into the courthouse. two breast cancer organizations, breast cancer action and force, had organized a demonstration on the courthouse steps.chris and i sat quietly in the hallway, moments before he was to walk in and argue the most important case of his career. i was clearly more nervous than he was. but any remaining panic subsided as i walked into the courtroom and looked around at a sea of friendly faces: our individual women clients who had shared their deeply personal stories, the geneticists who had taken huge chunks of time out of their busy careers to dedicate themselves to this fight and representatives from a diverse array of medical, patient advocacy, environmental and religious organizations, who had submitted friend of the court briefs in the case.also in the room were three leaders of the human genome project, including the co-discoverer of dna himself, james watson, who had submitted a brief to the court, where he referred to gene patenting as "lunacy." the diversity of the communities represented in this room and the contributions each had made to make this day a reality spoke volumes to what was at stake.the argument itself was riveting. chris argued brilliantly. but for me, the most thrilling aspect was watching the supreme court justices grapple with isolated dna, through a series of colorful analogies and feisty exchanges, very much the same way as our legal team had done for the past seven years. justice kagan likened isolating dna to extracting a medicinal plant from the amazon. justice roberts distinguished it from carving a baseball bat from a tree. and in one of my absolutely favorite moments, justice sotomayor proclaimed isolated dna to be "just nature sitting there." we felt pretty confident leaving the courtroom that day, but i could never have anticipated the outcome: nine to zero."a naturally occurring dna segment is a product of nature, and not patent-eligible merely because it has been isolated. and furthermore, myriad did not create anything."within 24 hours of the decision, five labs had announced that they would begin to offer testing for the brca genes. some of them promised to offer the tests at a lower price than myriad's. some promised to provide a more comprehensive test than the one myriad was offering.but of course the decision goes far beyond myriad. it ends a 25-year practice of allowing patents on human genes in the united states. it clears a significant barrier to biomedical discovery and innovation. and it helps to ensure that patients like abigail, kathleen and eileen have access to the tests that they need.a few weeks after the court issued its decision, i received a small package in the mail. it was from bob cook-deegan, a professor at duke university and one the very first people chris and i went to visit when we started to consider whether to bring this case. i opened it up to find a small stuffed animal. we took a big risk in taking this case. part of what gave us the courage to take that risk was knowing that we were doing the right thing. the process took nearly eight years from the start to finish, with many twists and turns along the way. a little luck certainly helped, but it was the communities that we bridged, the alliances that we created, that made pigs fly.thank you. <title = "A robot that runs and swims like a salamander">
<tags = "['animals', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'design', 'engineering', 'future', 'innovation', 'invention', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'physics', 'robots', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Roboticist">
this is pleurobot. pleurobot is a robot that we designed to closely mimic a salamander species called pleurodeles waltl. pleurobot can walk, as you can see here, and as you'll see later, it can also swim.so you might ask, why did we design this robot? and in fact, this robot has been designed as a scientific tool for neuroscience. indeed, we designed it together with neurobiologists to understand how animals move, and especially how the spinal cord controls locomotion. but the more i work in biorobotics, the more i'm really impressed by animal locomotion. if you think of a dolphin swimming or a cat running or jumping around, or even us as humans, when you go jogging or play tennis, we do amazing things. and in fact, our nervous system solves a very, very complex control problem. it has to coordinate more or less 200 muscles perfectly, because if the coordination is bad, we fall over or we do bad locomotion. and my goal is to understand how this works.there are four main components behind animal locomotion. the first component is just the body, and in fact we should never underestimate to what extent the biomechanics already simplify locomotion in animals. then you have the spinal cord, and in the spinal cord you find reflexes, multiple reflexes that create a sensorimotor coordination loop between neural activity in the spinal cord and mechanical activity. a third component are central pattern generators. these are very interesting circuits in the spinal cord of vertebrate animals that can generate, by themselves, very coordinated rhythmic patterns of activity while receiving only very simple input signals. and these input signals coming from descending modulation from higher parts of the brain, like the motor cortex, the cerebellum, the basal ganglia, will all modulate activity of the spinal cord while we do locomotion. but what's interesting is to what extent just a low-level component, the spinal cord, together with the body, already solve a big part of the locomotion problem. you probably know it by the fact that you can cut the head off a chicken, it can still run for a while, showing that just the lower part, spinal cord and body, already solve a big part of locomotion.now, understanding how this works is very complex, because first of all, recording activity in the spinal cord is very difficult. it's much easier to implant electrodes in the motor cortex than in the spinal cord, because it's protected by the vertebrae. especially in humans, very hard to do. a second difficulty is that locomotion is really due to a very complex and very dynamic interaction between these four components. so it's very hard to find out what's the role of each over time. this is where biorobots like pleurobot and mathematical models can really help.so what's biorobotics? biorobotics is a very active field of research in robotics where people want to take inspiration from animals to make robots to go outdoors, like service robots or search and rescue robots or field robots. and the big goal here is to take inspiration from animals to make robots that can handle complex terrain — stairs, mountains, forests, places where robots still have difficulties and where animals can do a much better job. the robot can be a wonderful scientific tool as well. there are some very nice projects where robots are used, like a scientific tool for neuroscience, for biomechanics or for hydrodynamics. and this is exactly the purpose of pleurobot. so what we do in my lab is to collaborate with neurobiologists like jean-marie cabelguen, a neurobiologist in bordeaux in france, and we want to make spinal cord models and validate them on robots. and here we want to start simple.so it's good to start with simple animals like lampreys, which are very primitive fish, and then gradually go toward more complex locomotion, like in salamanders, but also in cats and in humans, in mammals. and here, a robot becomes an interesting tool to validate our models. and in fact, for me, pleurobot is a kind of dream becoming true. like, more or less 20 years ago i was already working on a computer making simulations of lamprey and salamander locomotion during my phd. but i always knew that my simulations were just approximations. like, simulating the physics in water or with mud or with complex ground, it's very hard to simulate that properly on a computer. why not have a real robot and real physics? so among all these animals, one of my favorites is the salamander. you might ask why, and it's because as an amphibian, it's a really key animal from an evolutionary point of view. it makes a wonderful link between swimming, as you find it in eels or fish, and quadruped locomotion, as you see in mammals, in cats and humans. and in fact, the modern salamander is very close to the first terrestrial vertebrate, so it's almost a living fossil, which gives us access to our ancestor, the ancestor to all terrestrial tetrapods.so the salamander swims by doing what's called an anguilliform swimming gait, so they propagate a nice traveling wave of muscle activity from head to tail. and if you place the salamander on the ground, it switches to what's called a walking trot gait. in this case, you have nice periodic activation of the limbs which are very nicely coordinated with this standing wave undulation of the body, and that's exactly the gait that you are seeing here on pleurobot. now, one thing which is very surprising and fascinating in fact is the fact that all this can be generated just by the spinal cord and the body. so if you take a decerebrated salamander — it's not so nice but you remove the head — and if you electrically stimulate the spinal cord, at low level of stimulation this will induce a walking-like gait. if you stimulate a bit more, the gait accelerates. and at some point, there's a threshold, and automatically, the animal switches to swimming. this is amazing. just changing the global drive, as if you are pressing the gas pedal of descending modulation to your spinal cord, makes a complete switch between two very different gaits. and in fact, the same has been observed in cats. if you stimulate the spinal cord of a cat, you can switch between walk, trot and gallop. or in birds, you can make a bird switch between walking, at a low level of stimulation, and flapping its wings at high-level stimulation. and this really shows that the spinal cord is a very sophisticated locomotion controller.so we studied salamander locomotion in more detail, and we had in fact access to a very nice x-ray video machine from professor martin fischer in jena university in germany. and thanks to that, you really have an amazing machine to record all the bone motion in great detail. that's what we did. so we basically figured out which bones are important for us and collected their motion in 3d. and what we did is collect a whole database of motions, both on ground and in water, to really collect a whole database of motor behaviors that a real animal can do. and then our job as roboticists was to replicate that in our robot. so we did a whole optimization process to find out the right structure, where to place the motors, how to connect them together, to be able to replay these motions as well as possible. and this is how pleurobot came to life.so let's look at how close it is to the real animal. so what you see here is almost a direct comparison between the walking of the real animal and the pleurobot. you can see that we have almost a one-to-one exact replay of the walking gait. if you go backwards and slowly, you see it even better. but even better, we can do swimming. so for that we have a dry suit that we put all over the robot — and then we can go in water and start replaying the swimming gaits. and here, we were very happy, because this is difficult to do. the physics of interaction are complex. our robot is much bigger than a small animal, so we had to do what's called dynamic scaling of the frequencies to make sure we had the same interaction physics. but you see at the end, we have a very close match, and we were very, very happy with this. so let's go to the spinal cord. so here what we did with jean-marie cabelguen is model the spinal cord circuits. and what's interesting is that the salamander has kept a very primitive circuit, which is very similar to the one we find in the lamprey, this primitive eel-like fish, and it looks like during evolution, new neural oscillators have been added to control the limbs, to do the leg locomotion. and we know where these neural oscillators are but what we did was to make a mathematical model to see how they should be coupled to allow this transition between the two very different gaits. and we tested that on board of a robot.and this is how it looks. so what you see here is a previous version of pleurobot that's completely controlled by our spinal cord model programmed on board of the robot. and the only thing we do is send to the robot through a remote control the two descending signals it normally should receive from the upper part of the brain. and what's interesting is, by playing with these signals, we can completely control speed, heading and type of gait. for instance, when we stimulate at a low level, we have the walking gait, and at some point, if we stimulate a lot, very rapidly it switches to the swimming gait. and finally, we can also do turning very nicely by just stimulating more one side of the spinal cord than the other. and i think it's really beautiful how nature has distributed control to really give a lot of responsibility to the spinal cord so that the upper part of the brain doesn't need to worry about every muscle. it just has to worry about this high-level modulation, and it's really the job of the spinal cord to coordinate all the muscles.so now let's go to cat locomotion and the importance of biomechanics. so this is another project where we studied cat biomechanics, and we wanted to see how much the morphology helps locomotion. and we found three important criteria in the properties, basically, of the limbs. the first one is that a cat limb more or less looks like a pantograph-like structure. so a pantograph is a mechanical structure which keeps the upper segment and the lower segments always parallel. so a simple geometrical system that kind of coordinates a bit the internal movement of the segments. a second property of cat limbs is that they are very lightweight. most of the muscles are in the trunk, which is a good idea, because then the limbs have low inertia and can be moved very rapidly. the last final important property is this very elastic behavior of the cat limb, so to handle impacts and forces. and this is how we designed cheetah-cub.so let's invite cheetah-cub onstage. so this is peter eckert, who does his phd on this robot, and as you see, it's a cute little robot. it looks a bit like a toy, but it was really used as a scientific tool to investigate these properties of the legs of the cat. so you see, it's very compliant, very lightweight, and also very elastic, so you can easily press it down and it will not break. it will just jump, in fact. and this very elastic property is also very important. and you also see a bit these properties of these three segments of the leg as pantograph.now, what's interesting is that this quite dynamic gait is obtained purely in open loop, meaning no sensors, no complex feedback loops. and that's interesting, because it means that just the mechanics already stabilized this quite rapid gait, and that really good mechanics already basically simplify locomotion. to the extent that we can even disturb a bit locomotion, as you will see in the next video, where we can for instance do some exercise where we have the robot go down a step, and the robot will not fall over, which was a surprise for us. this is a small perturbation. i was expecting the robot to immediately fall over, because there are no sensors, no fast feedback loop. but no, just the mechanics stabilized the gait, and the robot doesn't fall over. obviously, if you make the step bigger, and if you have obstacles, you need the full control loops and reflexes and everything. but what's important here is that just for small perturbation, the mechanics are right. and i think this is a very important message from biomechanics and robotics to neuroscience, saying don't underestimate to what extent the body already helps locomotion.now, how does this relate to human locomotion? clearly, human locomotion is more complex than cat and salamander locomotion, but at the same time, the nervous system of humans is very similar to that of other vertebrates. and especially the spinal cord is also the key controller for locomotion in humans. that's why, if there's a lesion of the spinal cord, this has dramatic effects. the person can become paraplegic or tetraplegic. this is because the brain loses this communication with the spinal cord. especially, it loses this descending modulation to initiate and modulate locomotion. so a big goal of neuroprosthetics is to be able to reactivate that communication using electrical or chemical stimulations. and there are several teams in the world that do exactly that, especially at epfl. my colleagues grégoire courtine and silvestro micera, with whom i collaborate.but to do this properly, it's very important to understand how the spinal cord works, how it interacts with the body, and how the brain communicates with the spinal cord. this is where the robots and models that i've presented today will hopefully play a key role towards these very important goals.thank you. bruno giussani: auke, i've seen in your lab other robots that do things like swim in pollution and measure the pollution while they swim. but for this one, you mentioned in your talk, like a side project, search and rescue, and it does have a camera on its nose.auke ijspeert: absolutely. so the robot — we have some spin-off projects where we would like to use the robots to do search and rescue inspection, so this robot is now seeing you. and the big dream is to, if you have a difficult situation like a collapsed building or a building that is flooded, and this is very dangerous for a rescue team or even rescue dogs, why not send in a robot that can crawl around, swim, walk, with a camera onboard to do inspection and identify survivors and possibly create a communication link with the survivor.bg: of course, assuming the survivors don't get scared by the shape of this.ai: yeah, we should probably change the appearance quite a bit, because here i guess a survivor might die of a heart attack just of being worried that this would feed on you. but by changing the appearance and it making it more robust, i'm sure we can make a good tool out of it.bg: thank you very much. thank you and your team.<title = "Our campaign to ban plastic bags in Bali">
<tags = "['activism', 'big problems', 'consumerism', 'education', 'environment', 'future', 'global development', 'materials', 'oceans', 'plastic', 'pollution', 'sustainability', 'youth']">
<occupation = "Activists">
melati wijsen: bali — island of gods.isabel wijsen: a green paradise.mw: or ... a paradise lost. bali: island of garbage.iw: in bali, we generate 680 cubic meters of plastic garbage a day. that's about a 14-story building. and when it comes to plastic bags, less than five percent gets recycled.mw: we know that changes the image you may have of our island. it changed ours, too, when we learned about it, when we learned that almost all plastic bags in bali end up in our drains and then in our rivers and then in our ocean. and those that don't even make it to the ocean, they're either burned or littered.iw: so we decided to do something about it. and we've been working for almost three years now to try to say no to plastic bags on our home island. and we have had some significant successes.mw: we are sisters, and we go to the best school on earth: green school, bali. green school is not only different in the way that it is built out of bamboo, but also in the way that it teaches. we are taught to become leaders of today, something a normal textbook cannot match.iw: one day we had a lesson in class where we learned about significant people, like nelson mandela, lady diana and mahatma gandhi. walking home that day, we agreed that we also wanted to be significant. why should we wait until we were grown up to be significant? we wanted to do something now.mw: sitting on the sofa that night, we brainstormed and thought of all the issues facing bali. and one thing that stood out to us the most was the plastic garbage. but that is a huge problem. so we looked into what was a realistic target for us kids: plastic bags. and the idea was born.iw: we started researching, and let's just say, the more we learned, there was nothing good about plastic bags. and you know what? we don't even need them.mw: we were really inspired by the efforts to say no to plastic bags in many other places, from hawaii to rwanda and to severals cities like oakland and dublin.iw: and so the idea turned into the launch of "bye bye plastic bags." mw: in the years that we have been campaigning, we have learned a lot.lesson number one: you cannot do it all by yourself. you need a big team of like-minded kids, and so we formed the bye bye plastic bags crew. the volunteer team includes children from all over the island, from both international and local schools. and together with them, we started a multi-layered approach, based on an on- and off-line signature petition, educational and inspirational presentations at schools and we raise general awareness at markets, festivals, beach clean-ups. and last but not least, we distribute alternative bags, bags like net bags, recycled newspaper bags or 100 percent organic material bags, all made by local initiatives on the island.iw: we run a pilot village, home of 800 families. the village mayor was our first friend and he loved our t-shirts, so that helped. we focused on making the customers aware, because that's where the change needs to happen. the village is already two-thirds along the way of becoming plastic bag free.our first attempts to get the government of bali on board failed. so we thought, "hmm ... a petition with one million signatures. they can't ignore us, right?"mw: right!iw: but, who would have guessed one million signatures is, like, a thousand times a thousand? we got stuck — till we learned lesson number two: think outside the box. someone mentioned that the bali airport handles 16 million arrivals and departures a year.mw: but how do we get into the airport? and here comes lesson number three: persistence. off we headed to the airport. we got past the janitor. and then it was his boss's boss, and then the assistant office manager, and then the office manager, and then ... we got shuffled down two levels and thought, well, here comes the janitor again.and after several days knocking on doors and just being kids on a mission, we finally got to the commercial manager of bali airports. and we gave him the "bali of plastic bags" speech, and being a very nice man, he said, [imitating the man's voice] "i cannot believe what i'm about say, but i'm going to give authorization to collect signatures behind customs and immigrations." iw: in our first hour and a half there, we got almost 1,000 signatures. how cool is that?lesson number four: you need champions at all levels of society, from students to commercial managers to famous people. and thanks to the attraction of green school, we had access to a steady stream of celebrities. ban ki moon taught us that secretary-generals of the united nations don't sign petitions — even if kids ask nicely. but he promised to spread the word, and now we work closely with the united nations.mw: jane goodall taught us the power of a people's network. she started with just one roots & shoots group and now she has 4,000 groups around the world. we are one of them. she's a real inspiration.if you're a fellow rotarian, nice to meet you. we're interactors, the youngest department of rotary international.iw: but we have also learned much about patience,mw: how to deal with frustrations,iw: leadership,mw: teamwork,iw: friendship,mw: we learned more about the balinese and their cultureiw: and we learned about the importance of commitment.mw: it's not always easy. sometimes it does get a little bit hard to walk your talk.iw: but last year, we did exactly that. we went to india to give a talk, and our parents took us to visit the former private house of mahatma gandhi. we learned about the power of hunger strikes he did to reach his goals. yes, by the end of the tour, when we met our parents again, we both made a decision and said, "we're going on a hunger strike!" mw: and you can probably imagine their faces. it took a lot of convincing, and not only to our parents but to our friends and to our teachers as well. isabel and i were serious about doing this. so we met with a nutritionist, and we came up with a compromise of not eating from sunrise to sunset every day until the governor of bali would agree to meet with us to talk about how to stop plastic bags on bali.iw: our "mogak makan," as it is called in bahasa indonesia, started. we used social media to support our goal and already on day two, police started to come to our home and school. what were these two girls doing? we knew we weren't making the governor look his best by doing this food strike — we could have gone to jail. but, hey, it worked. twenty-four hours later, we were picked up from school and escorted to the office of the governor.mw: and there he was — waiting for us to meet and speak, being all supportive and thankful for our willingness to care for the beauty and the environment of bali.he signed a promise to help the people of bali say no to plastic bags. and we are now friends, and on a regular basis, we remind him and his team of the promises he has made. and indeed, recently he stated and committed that bali will be plastic bag free by 2018. iw: also, at the international airport of bali, one of our supporters is planning to start a plastic bag-free policy by 2016.mw: stop handing out free plastic bags and bring in your own reusable bag is our next message to change that mindset of the public.iw: our short-term campaign, "one island / one voice," is all about this. we check and recognize the shops and restaurants that have declared themselves a plastic bag-free zone, and we put this sticker at their entrance and publish their names on social media and some important magazines on bali. and conversely, that highlights those who do not have the sticker. mw: so, why are we actually telling you all of this? well, partly, it is because we are proud of the results that, together with our team, we have been able to reach. but also because along the way, we have learned that kids can do things. we can make things happen. isabel and i were only 10 and 12 years old when we started this. we never had a business plan, nor a fixed strategy, nor any hidden agendas — just the idea in front of us and a group of friends working with us. all we wanted to do was stop those plastic bags from wrapping and suffocating our beautiful home. kids have a boundless energy and a motivation to be the change the world needs.iw: so to all the kids of this beautiful but challenging world: go for it! make that difference. we're not telling you it's going to be easy. we're telling you it's going to be worth it. us kids may only be 25 percent of the world's population, but we are 100 percent of the future.mw: we still have a lot of work to do, but know that we still not stop until the first question asked when arriving at the bali airports will beboth: "welcome to bali, do you have nay plastic bags to declare?" om shanti shanti shanti om.thank you. <title = "A delightful way to teach kids about computers">
<tags = "['Internet', 'TEDx', 'algorithm', 'code', 'computers', 'creativity', 'design', 'education', 'future', 'parenting', 'product design', 'programming', 'software', 'storytelling', 'technology', 'web']">
<occupation = "Programmer, storyteller and illustrator">
code is the next universal language. in the seventies, it was punk music that drove the whole generation. in the eighties, it was probably money. but for my generation of people, software is the interface to our imagination and our world. and that means that we need a radically, radically more diverse set of people to build those products, to not see computers as mechanical and lonely and boring and magic, to see them as things that they can tinker and turn around and twist, and so forth.my personal journey into the world of programming and technology started at the tender age of 14. i had this mad teenage crush on an older man, and the older man in question just happened to be the then vice president of the united states, mr. al gore. and i did what every single teenage girl would want to do. i wanted to somehow express all of this love, so i built him a website, it's over here. and in 2001, there was no tumblr, there was no facebook, there was no pinterest. so i needed to learn to code in order to express all of this longing and loving.and that is how programming started for me. it started as a means of self-expression. just like when i was smaller, i would use crayons and legos. and when i was older, i would use guitar lessons and theater plays. but then, there were other things to get excited about, like poetry and knitting socks and conjugating french irregular verbs and coming up with make-believe worlds and bertrand russell and his philosophy. and i started to be one of those people who felt that computers are boring and technical and lonely.here's what i think today. little girls don't know that they are not supposed to like computers. little girls are amazing. they are really, really good at concentrating on things and being exact and they ask amazing questions like, "what?" and "why?" and "how?" and "what if?" and they don't know that they are not supposed to like computers. it's the parents who do. it's us parents who feel like computer science is this esoteric, weird science discipline that only belongs to the mystery makers. that it's almost as far removed from everyday life as, say, nuclear physics.and they are partly right about that. there's a lot of syntax and controls and data structures and algorithms and practices, protocols and paradigms in programming. and we as a community, we've made computers smaller and smaller. we've built layers and layers of abstraction on top of each other between the man and the machine to the point that we no longer have any idea how computers work or how to talk to them. and we do teach our kids how the human body works, we teach them how the combustion engine functions and we even tell them that if you want to really be an astronaut you can become one. but when the kid comes to us and asks, "so, what is a bubble sort algorithm?" or, "how does the computer know what happens when i press 'play,' how does it know which video to show?" or, "linda, is internet a place?" we adults, we grow oddly silent. "it's magic," some of us say. "it's too complicated," the others say.well, it's neither. it's not magic and it's not complicated. it all just happened really, really, really fast. computer scientists built these amazing, beautiful machines, but they made them very, very foreign to us, and also the language we speak to the computers so that we don't know how to speak to the computers anymore without our fancy user interfaces.and that's why no one recognized that when i was conjugating french irregular verbs, i was actually practicing my pattern recognition skills. and when i was excited about knitting, i actually was following a sequence of symbolic commands that included loops inside of them. and that bertrand russell's lifelong quest to find an exact language between english and mathematics found its home inside of a computer. i was a programmer, but no one knew it.the kids of today, they tap, swipe and pinch their way through the world. but unless we give them tools to build with computers, we are raising only consumers instead of creators.this whole quest led me to this little girl. her name is ruby, she is six years old. she is completely fearless, imaginative and a little bit bossy. and every time i would run into a problem in trying to teach myself programming like, "what is object-oriented design or what is garbage collection?", i would try to imagine how a six-year-old little girl would explain the problem.and i wrote a book about her and i illustrated it and the things ruby taught me go like this. ruby taught me that you're not supposed to be afraid of the bugs under your bed. and even the biggest of the problems are a group of tiny problems stuck together. and ruby also introduced me to her friends, the colorful side of the internet culture. she has friends like the snow leopard, who is beautiful but doesn't want to play with the other kids. and she has friends like the green robots that are really friendly but super messy. and she has friends like linux the penguin who's really ruthlessly efficient, but somewhat hard to understand. and idealistic foxes, and so on.in ruby's world, you learn technology through play. and, for instance, computers are really good at repeating stuff, so the way ruby would teach loops goes like this. this is ruby's favorite dance move, it goes, "clap, clap, stomp, stomp clap, clap and jump." and you learn counter loops by repeating that four times. and you learn while loops by repeating that sequence while i'm standing on one leg. and you learn until loops by repeating that sequence until mom gets really mad.  and most of all, you learn that there are no ready answers.when coming up with the curriculum for ruby's world, i needed to really ask the kids how they see the world and what kind of questions they have and i would organize play testing sessions. i would start by showing the kids these four pictures. i would show them a picture of a car, a grocery store, a dog and a toilet. and i would ask, "which one of these do you think is a computer?" and the kids would be very conservative and go, "none of these is a computer. i know what a computer is: it's that glowing box in front of which mom or dad spends way too much time." but then we would talk and we would discover that actually, a car is a computer, it has a navigation system inside of it. and a dog — a dog might not be a computer, but it has a collar and the collar might have a computer inside of it. and grocery stores, they have so many different kinds of computers, like the cashier system and the burglar alarms. and kids, you know what? in japan, toilets are computers and there's even hackers who hack them. and we go further and i give them these little stickers with an on/off button on them. and i tell the kids, "today you have this magic ability to make anything in this room into a computer." and again, the kids go, "sounds really hard, i don't know the right answer for this." but i tell them, "don't worry, your parents don't know the right answer, either. they've just started to hear about this thing called the internet of things. but you kids, you are going to be the ones who are really going to live up in a world where everything is a computer."and then i had this little girl who came to me and took a bicycle lamp and she said, "this bicycle lamp, if it were a computer, it would change colors." and i said, "that's a really good idea, what else could it do?" and she thinks and she thinks, and she goes, "if this bicycle lamp were a computer, we could go on a biking trip with my father and we would sleep in a tent and this biking lamp could also be a movie projector." and that's the moment i'm looking for, the moment when the kid realizes that the world is definitely not ready yet, that a really awesome way of making the world more ready is by building technology and that each one of us can be a part of that change.final story, we also built a computer. and we got to know the bossy cpu and the helpful ram and rom that help it remember things. and after we've assembled our computer together, we also design an application for it. and my favorite story is this little boy, he's six years old and his favorite thing in the world is to be an astronaut. and the boy, he has these huge headphones on and he's completely immersed in his tiny paper computer because you see, he's built his own intergalactic planetary navigation application. and his father, the lone astronaut in the martian orbit, is on the other side of the room and the boy's important mission is to bring the father safely back to earth. and these kids are going to have a profoundly different view of the world and the way we build it with technology.finally, the more approachable, the more inclusive, and the more diverse we make the world of technology, the more colorful and better the world will look like. so, imagine with me, for a moment, a world where the stories we tell about how things get made don't only include the twentysomething-year-old silicon valley boys, but also kenyan schoolgirls and norwegian librarians. imagine a world where the little ada lovelaces of tomorrow, who live in a permanent reality of 1s and 0s, they grow up to be very optimistic and brave about technology. they embrace the powers and the opportunities and the limitations of the world. a world of technology that is wonderful, whimsical and a tiny bit weird.when i was a girl, i wanted to be a storyteller. i loved make-believe worlds and my favorite thing to do was to wake up in the mornings in moominvalley. in the afternoons, i would roam around the tatooines. and in the evenings, i would go to sleep in narnia. and programming turned out to be the perfect profession for me. i still create worlds. instead of stories, i do them with code.programming gives me this amazing power to build my whole little universe with its own rules and paradigms and practices. create something out of nothing with the pure power of logic.thank you. <title = "The boiling river of the Amazon">
<tags = "['Bioethics', 'South America', 'adventure', 'beauty', 'chemistry', 'ecology', 'environment', 'exploration', 'geology', 'motivation', 'nature', 'rivers', 'science']">
<occupation = "Geoscientist">
as a boy in lima, my grandfather told me a legend of the spanish conquest of peru. atahualpa, emperor of the inca, had been captured and killed. pizarro and his conquistadors had grown rich, and tales of their conquest and glory had reached spain and was bringing new waves of spaniards, hungry for gold and glory. they would go into towns and ask the inca, "where's another civilization we can conquer? where's more gold?"and the inca, out of vengeance, told them, "go to the amazon. you'll find all the gold you want there. in fact, there is a city called paititi — el dorado in spanish — made entirely of gold."the spanish set off into the jungle, but the few that return come back with stories, stories of powerful shamans, of warriors with poisoned arrows, of trees so tall they blotted out the sun, spiders that ate birds, snakes that swallowed men whole and a river that boiled.all this became a childhood memory. and years passed. i'm working on my phd at smu, trying to understand peru's geothermal energy potential, when i remember this legend, and i began asking that question. could the boiling river exist?i asked colleagues from universities, the government, oil, gas and mining companies, and the answer was a unanimous no. and this makes sense. you see, boiling rivers do exist in the world, but they're generally associated with volcanoes. you need a powerful heat source to produce such a large geothermal manifestation. and as you can see from the red dots here, which are volcanoes, we don't have volcanoes in the amazon, nor in most of peru. so it follows: we should not expect to see a boiling river.telling this same story at a family dinner, my aunt tells me, "but no, andrés, i've been there. i've swum in that river." then my uncle jumps in. "no, andrés, she's not kidding. you see, you can only swim in it after a very heavy rain, and it's protected by a powerful shaman. your aunt, she's friends with his wife." "¿cómo?" ["huh?"]you know, despite all my scientific skepticism, i found myself hiking into the jungle, guided by my aunt, over 700 kilometers away from the nearest volcanic center, and well, honestly, mentally preparing myself to behold the legendary "warm stream of the amazon."but then ... i heard something, a low surge that got louder and louder as we came closer. it sounded like ocean waves constantly crashing, and as we got closer, i saw smoke, vapor, coming up through the trees. and then, i saw this.i immediately grabbed for my thermometer, and the average temperatures in the river were 86 degrees c. this is not quite the 100-degree c boiling but definitely close enough. the river flowed hot and fast. i followed it upriver and was led by, actually, the shaman's apprentice to the most sacred site on the river. and this is what's bizarre — it starts off as a cold stream. and here, at this site, is the home of the yacumama, mother of the waters, a giant serpent spirit who births hot and cold water. and here we find a hot spring, mixing with cold stream water underneath her protective motherly jaws and thus bringing their legends to life.the next morning, i woke up and — i asked for tea. i was handed a mug, a tea bag and, well, pointed towards the river. to my surprise, the water was clean and had a pleasant taste, which is a little weird for geothermal systems.what was amazing is that the locals had always known about this place, and that i was by no means the first outsider to see it. it was just part of their everyday life. they drink its water. they take in its vapor. they cook with it, clean with it, even make their medicines with it.i met the shaman, and he seemed like an extension of the river and his jungle. he asked for my intentions and listened carefully. then, to my tremendous relief — i was freaking out, to be honest with you — a smile began to snake across his face, and he just laughed. i had received the shaman's blessing to study the river, on the condition that after i take the water samples and analyze them in my lab, wherever i was in the world, that i pour the waters back into the ground so that, as the shaman said, the waters could find their way back home.i've been back every year since that first visit in 2011, and the fieldwork has been exhilarating, demanding and at times dangerous. one story was even featured in national geographic magazine. i was trapped on a small rock about the size of a sheet of paper in sandals and board shorts, in between an 80 degree c river and a hot spring that, well, looked like this, close to boiling. and on top of that, it was amazon rain forest. pshh, pouring rain, couldn't see a thing. the temperature differential made it all white. it was a whiteout. intense.now, after years of work, i'll soon be submitting my geophysical and geochemical studies for publication. and i'd like to share, today, with all of you here, on the ted stage, for the first time, some of these discoveries.well, first off, it's not a legend. surprise! when i first started the research, the satellite imagery was too low-resolution to be meaningful. there were just no good maps. thanks to the support of the google earth team, i now have this. not only that, the indigenous name of the river, shanay-timpishka, "boiled with the heat of the sun," indicating that i'm not the first to wonder why the river boils, and showing that humanity has always sought to explain the world around us.so why does the river boil?(bubbling sounds)it actually took me three years to get that footage.fault-fed hot springs. as we have hot blood running through our veins and arteries, so, too, the earth has hot water running through its cracks and faults. where these arteries come to the surface, these earth arteries, we'll get geothermal manifestations: fumaroles, hot springs and in our case, the boiling river.what's truly incredible, though, is the scale of this place. next time you cross the road, think about this. the river flows wider than a two-lane road along most of its path. it flows hot for 6.24 kilometers. truly impressive. there are thermal pools larger than this ted stage, and that waterfall that you see there is six meters tall — and all with near-boiling water.we mapped the temperatures along the river, and this was by far the most demanding part of the fieldwork. and the results were just awesome. sorry — the geoscientist in me coming out. and it showed this amazing trend. you see, the river starts off cold. it then heats up, cools back down, heats up, cools back down, heats up again, and then has this beautiful decay curve until it smashes into this cold river.now, i understand not all of you are geothermal scientists, so to put it in more everyday terms: everyone loves coffee. yes? good. your regular cup of coffee, 54 degrees c, an extra-hot one, well, 60. so, put in coffee shop terms, the boiling river plots like this. there you have your hot coffee. here you have your extra-hot coffee, and you can see that there's a bit point there where the river is still hotter than even the extra-hot coffee. and these are average water temperatures. we took these in the dry season to ensure the purest geothermal temperatures.but there's a magic number here that's not being shown, and that number is 47 degrees c, because that's where things start to hurt, and i know this from very personal experience. above that temperature, you don't want to get in that water. you need to be careful. it can be deadly.i've seen all sorts of animals fall in, and what's shocking to me, is the process is pretty much the same. so they fall in and the first thing to go are the eyes. eyes, apparently, cook very quickly. they turn this milky-white color. the stream is carrying them. they're trying to swim out, but their meat is cooking on the bone because it's so hot. so they're losing power, losing power, until finally they get to a point where hot water goes into their mouths and they cook from the inside out. a bit sadistic, aren't we? jeez. leave them marinating for a little longer. what's, again, amazing are these temperatures. they're similar to things that i've seen on volcanoes all over the world and even super-volcanoes like yellowstone.but here's the thing: the data is showing that the boiling river exists independent of volcanism. it's neither magmatic or volcanic in origin, and again, over 700 kilometers away from the nearest volcanic center.how can a boiling river exist like this? i've asked geothermal experts and volcanologists for years, and i'm still unable to find another non-volcanic geothermal system of this magnitude. it's unique. it's special on a global scale. so, still — how does it work? where do we get this heat? there's still more research to be done to better constrain the problem and better understand the system, but from what the data is telling us now, it looks to be the result of a large hydrothermal system.basically, it works like this: so, the deeper you go into the earth, the hotter it gets. we refer to this as the geothermal gradient. the waters could be coming from as far away as glaciers in the andes, then seeping down deep into the earth and coming out to form the boiling river after getting heated up from the geothermal gradient, all due to this unique geologic setting.now, we found that in and around the river — this is working with colleagues from national geographic, dr. spencer wells, and dr. jon eisen from uc davis — we genetically sequenced the extremophile lifeforms living in and around the river, and have found new lifeforms, unique species living in the boiling river.but again, despite all of these studies, all of these discoveries and the legends, a question remains: what is the significance of the boiling river? what is the significance of this stationary cloud that always hovers over this patch of jungle? and what is the significance of a detail in a childhood legend?to the shaman and his community, it's a sacred site. to me, as a geoscientist, it's a unique geothermal phenomenon. but to the illegal loggers and cattle farmers, it's just another resource to exploit. and to the peruvian government, it's just another stretch of unprotected land ready for development.my goal is to ensure that whoever controls this land understands the boiling river's uniqueness and significance. because that's the question, one of significance. and the thing there is, we define significance. it's us. we have that power. we are the ones who draw that line between the sacred and the trivial. and in this age, where everything seems mapped, measured and studied, in this age of information, i remind you all that discoveries are not just made in the black void of the unknown but in the white noise of overwhelming data.there remains so much to explore. we live in an incredible world. so go out. be curious. because we do live in a world where shamans still sing to the spirits of the jungle, where rivers do boil and where legends do come to life.thank you very much. <title = "A simple way to break a bad habit">
<tags = "['Addiction', 'TEDMED', 'brain', 'choice', 'cognitive science', 'curiosity', 'decision-making', 'health', 'illness', 'meditation', 'mental health', 'mind', 'mindfulness', 'motivation', 'nature', 'neuroscience', 'obesity', 'personal growth', 'science']">
<occupation = "Mindful addiction doctor">
when i was first learning to meditate, the instruction was to simply pay attention to my breath, and when my mind wandered, to bring it back.sounded simple enough. yet i'd sit on these silent retreats, sweating through t-shirts in the middle of winter. i'd take naps every chance i got because it was really hard work. actually, it was exhausting. the instruction was simple enough but i was missing something really important.so why is it so hard to pay attention? well, studies show that even when we're really trying to pay attention to something — like maybe this talk — at some point, about half of us will drift off into a daydream, or have this urge to check our twitter feed.so what's going on here? it turns out that we're fighting one of the most evolutionarily-conserved learning processes currently known in science, one that's conserved back to the most basic nervous systems known to man.this reward-based learning process is called positive and negative reinforcement, and basically goes like this. we see some food that looks good, our brain says, "calories! ... survival!" we eat the food, we taste it — it tastes good. and especially with sugar, our bodies send a signal to our brain that says, "remember what you're eating and where you found it." we lay down this context-dependent memory and learn to repeat the process next time. see food, eat food, feel good, repeat. trigger, behavior, reward.simple, right? well, after a while, our creative brains say, "you know what? you can use this for more than just remembering where food is. you know, next time you feel bad, why don't you try eating something good so you'll feel better?" we thank our brains for the great idea, try this and quickly learn that if we eat chocolate or ice cream when we're mad or sad, we feel better.same process, just a different trigger. instead of this hunger signal coming from our stomach, this emotional signal — feeling sad — triggers that urge to eat.maybe in our teenage years, we were a nerd at school, and we see those rebel kids outside smoking and we think, "hey, i want to be cool." so we start smoking. the marlboro man wasn't a dork, and that was no accident. see cool, smoke to be cool, feel good. repeat. trigger, behavior, reward. and each time we do this, we learn to repeat the process and it becomes a habit. so later, feeling stressed out triggers that urge to smoke a cigarette or to eat something sweet.now, with these same brain processes, we've gone from learning to survive to literally killing ourselves with these habits. obesity and smoking are among the leading preventable causes of morbidity and mortality in the world.so back to my breath. what if instead of fighting our brains, or trying to force ourselves to pay attention, we instead tapped into this natural, reward-based learning process ... but added a twist? what if instead we just got really curious about what was happening in our momentary experience?i'll give you an example. in my lab, we studied whether mindfulness training could help people quit smoking. now, just like trying to force myself to pay attention to my breath, they could try to force themselves to quit smoking. and the majority of them had tried this before and failed — on average, six times.now, with mindfulness training, we dropped the bit about forcing and instead focused on being curious. in fact, we even told them to smoke. what? yeah, we said, "go ahead and smoke, just be really curious about what it's like when you do."and what did they notice? well here's an example from one of our smokers. she said, "mindful smoking: smells like stinky cheese and tastes like chemicals, yuck!" now, she knew, cognitively that smoking was bad for her, that's why she joined our program. what she discovered just by being curiously aware when she smoked was that smoking tastes like shit. now, she moved from knowledge to wisdom. she moved from knowing in her head that smoking was bad for her to knowing it in her bones, and the spell of smoking was broken. she started to become disenchanted with her behavior.now, the prefrontal cortex, that youngest part of our brain from an evolutionary perspective, it understands on an intellectual level that we shouldn't smoke. and it tries its hardest to help us change our behavior, to help us stop smoking, to help us stop eating that second, that third, that fourth cookie. we call this cognitive control. we're using cognition to control our behavior. unfortunately, this is also the first part of our brain that goes offline when we get stressed out, which isn't that helpful.now, we can all relate to this in our own experience. we're much more likely to do things like yell at our spouse or kids when we're stressed out or tired, even though we know it's not going to be helpful. we just can't help ourselves.when the prefrontal cortex goes offline, we fall back into our old habits, which is why this disenchantment is so important. seeing what we get from our habits helps us understand them at a deeper level — to know it in our bones so we don't have to force ourselves to hold back or restrain ourselves from behavior. we're just less interested in doing it in the first place.and this is what mindfulness is all about: seeing really clearly what we get when we get caught up in our behaviors, becoming disenchanted on a visceral level and from this disenchanted stance, naturally letting go.this isn't to say that, poof, magically we quit smoking. but over time, as we learn to see more and more clearly the results of our actions, we let go of old habits and form new ones.the paradox here is that mindfulness is just about being really interested in getting close and personal with what's actually happening in our bodies and minds from moment to moment. this willingness to turn toward our experience rather than trying to make unpleasant cravings go away as quickly as possible. and this willingness to turn toward our experience is supported by curiosity, which is naturally rewarding.what does curiosity feel like? it feels good. and what happens when we get curious? we start to notice that cravings are simply made up of body sensations — oh, there's tightness, there's tension, there's restlessness — and that these body sensations come and go. these are bite-size pieces of experiences that we can manage from moment to moment rather than getting clobbered by this huge, scary craving that we choke on.in other words, when we get curious, we step out of our old, fear-based, reactive habit patterns, and we step into being. we become this inner scientist where we're eagerly awaiting that next data point.now, this might sound too simplistic to affect behavior. but in one study, we found that mindfulness training was twice as good as gold standard therapy at helping people quit smoking. so it actually works.and when we studied the brains of experienced meditators, we found that parts of a neural network of self-referential processing called the default mode network were at play. now, one current hypothesis is that a region of this network, called the posterior cingulate cortex, is activated not necessarily by craving itself but when we get caught up in it, when we get sucked in, and it takes us for a ride.in contrast, when we let go — step out of the process just by being curiously aware of what's happening — this same brain region quiets down.now we're testing app and online-based mindfulness training programs that target these core mechanisms and, ironically, use the same technology that's driving us to distraction to help us step out of our unhealthy habit patterns of smoking, of stress eating and other addictive behaviors.now, remember that bit about context-dependent memory? we can deliver these tools to peoples' fingertips in the contexts that matter most. so we can help them tap into their inherent capacity to be curiously aware right when that urge to smoke or stress eat or whatever arises.so if you don't smoke or stress eat, maybe the next time you feel this urge to check your email when you're bored, or you're trying to distract yourself from work, or maybe to compulsively respond to that text message when you're driving, see if you can tap into this natural capacity, just be curiously aware of what's happening in your body and mind in that moment. it will just be another chance to perpetuate one of our endless and exhaustive habit loops ... or step out of it.instead of see text message, compulsively text back, feel a little bit better — notice the urge, get curious, feel the joy of letting go and repeat.thank you. <title = "How we'll fight the next deadly virus">
<tags = "['Africa', 'big problems', 'disease', 'ebola', 'future', 'genetics', 'global issues', 'health', 'humanity', 'illness', 'innovation', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'pandemic', 'public health', 'science']">
<occupation = "Computational geneticist">
you may never have heard of kenema, sierra leone or arua, nigeria. but i know them as two of the most extraordinary places on earth.in hospitals there, there's a community of nurses, physicians and scientists that have been quietly battling one of the deadliest threats to humanity for years: lassa virus. lassa virus is a lot like ebola. it can cause a severe fever and can often be fatal. but these individuals, they risk their lives every day to protect the individuals in their communities, and by doing so, protect us all.but one of the most extraordinary things i learned about them on one of my first visits out there many years ago was that they start each morning — these challenging, extraordinary days on the front lines — by singing. they gather together, and they show their joy. they show their spirit. and over the years, from year after year as i've visited them and they've visited me, i get to gather with them and i sing and we write and we love it, because it reminds us that we're not just there to pursue science together; we're bonded through a shared humanity.and that of course, as you can imagine, becomes extremely important, even essential, as things begin to change. and that changed a great deal in march of 2014, when the ebola outbreak was declared in guinea. this is the first outbreak in west africa, near the border of sierra leone and liberia. and it was frightening, frightening for us all. we had actually suspected for some time that lassa and ebola were more widespread than thought, and we thought it could one day come to kenema.and so members of my team immediately went out and joined dr. humarr khan and his team there, and we set up diagnostics to be able to have sensitive molecular tests to pick up ebola if it came across the border and into sierra leone. we'd already set up this kind of capacity for lassa virus, we knew how to do it, the team is outstanding. we just had to give them the tools and place to survey for ebola.and unfortunately, that day came. on may 23, 2014, a woman checked into the maternity ward at the hospital, and the team ran those important molecular tests and they identified the first confirmed case of ebola in sierra leone. this was an exceptional work that was done. they were able to diagnose the case immediately, to safely treat the patient and to begin to do contact tracing to follow what was going on. it could've stopped something. but by the time that day came, the outbreak had already been breeding for months. with hundreds of cases, it had already eclipsed all previous outbreaks. and it came into sierra leone not as that singular case, but as a tidal wave.we had to work with the international community, with the ministry of health, with kenema, to begin to deal with the cases, as the next week brought 31, then 92, then 147 cases — all coming to kenema, one of the only places in sierra leone that could deal with this.and we worked around the clock trying to do everything we could, trying to help the individuals, trying to get attention, but we also did one other simple thing. from that specimen that we take from a patient's blood to detect ebola, we can discard it, obviously. the other thing we can do is, actually, put in a chemical and deactivate it, so just place it into a box and ship it across the ocean, and that's what we did. we sent it to boston, where my team works. and we also worked around the clock doing shift work, day after day, and we quickly generated 99 genomes of the ebola virus. this is the blueprint — the genome of a virus is the blueprint. we all have one. it says everything that makes up us, and it tells us so much information.the results of this kind of work are simple and they're powerful. we could actually take these 99 different viruses, look at them and compare them, and we could see, actually, compared to three genomes that had been previously published from guinea, we could show that the outbreak emerged in guinea months before, once into the human population, and from there had been transmitting from human to human. now, that's incredibly important when you're trying to figure out how to intervene, but the important thing is contact tracing. we also could see that as the virus was moving between humans, it was mutating. and each of those mutations are so important, because the diagnostics, the vaccines, the therapies that we're using, are all based on that genome sequence, fundamentally — that's what drives it. and so global health experts would need to respond, would have to develop, to recalibrate everything that they were doing.but the way that science works, the position i was in at that point is, i had the data, and i could have worked in a silo for many, many months, analyzed the data carefully, slowly, submitted the paper for publication, gone through a few back-and-forths, and then finally when the paper came out, might release that data. that's the way the status quo works.well, that was not going to work at this point, right? we had friends on the front lines and to us it was just obvious that what we needed is help, lots of help. so the first thing we did is, as soon as the sequences came off the machines, we published it to the web. we just released it to the whole world and said, "help us." and help came.before we knew it, we were being contacted from people all over, surprised to see the data out there and released. some of the greatest viral trackers in the world were suddenly part of our community. we were working together in this virtual way, sharing, regular calls, communications, trying to follow the virus minute by minute, to see ways that we could stop it.and there are so many ways that we can form communities like that. everybody, particularly when the outbreak started to expand globally, was reaching out to learn, to participate, to engage. everybody wants to play a part. the amount of human capacity out there is just amazing, and the internet connects us all. and could you imagine that instead of being frightened of each other, that we all just said, "let's do this. let's work together, and let's make this happen."but the problem is that the data that all of us are using, googling on the web, is just too limited to do what we need to do. and so many opportunities get missed when that happens. so in the early part of the epidemic from kenema, we'd had 106 clinical records from patients, and we once again made that publicly available to the world. and in our own lab, we could show that you could take those 106 records, we could train computers to predict the prognosis for ebola patients to near 100 percent accuracy. and we made an app that could release that, to make that available to health-care workers in the field.but 106 is just not enough to make it powerful, to validate it. so we were waiting for more data to release that. and the data has still not come. we are still waiting, tweaking away, in silos rather than working together. and this just — we can't accept that. right? you, all of you, cannot accept that. it's our lives on the line. and in fact, actually, many lives were lost, many health-care workers, including beloved colleagues of mine, five colleagues: mbalu fonnie, alex moigboi, dr. humarr khan, alice kovoma and mohamed fullah. these are just five of many health-care workers at kenema and beyond that died while the world waited and while we all worked, quietly and separately.see, ebola, like all threats to humanity, it's fueled by mistrust and distraction and division. when we build barriers amongst ourselves and we fight amongst ourselves, the virus thrives. but unlike all threats to humanity, ebola is one where we're actually all the same. we're all in this fight together. ebola on one person's doorstep could soon be on ours. and so in this place with the same vulnerabilities, the same strengths, the same fears, the same hopes, i hope that we work together with joy.a graduate student of mine was reading a book about sierra leone, and she discovered that the word "kenema," the hospital that we work at and the city where we work in sierra leone, is named after the mende word for "clear like a river, translucent and open to the public gaze." that was really profound for us, because without knowing it, we'd always felt that in order to honor the individuals in kenema where we worked, we had to work openly, we had to share and we had to work together. and we have to do that. we all have to demand that of ourselves and others — to be open to each other when an outbreak happens, to fight in this fight together. because this is not the first outbreak of ebola, it will not be the last, and there are many other microbes out there that are lying in wait, like lassa virus and others. and the next time this happens, it could happen in a city of millions, it could start there. it could be something that's transmitted through the air. it could even be disseminated intentionally. and i know that that is frightening, i understand that, but i know also, and this experience shows us, that we have the technology and we have the capacity to win this thing, to win this and have the upper hand over viruses. but we can only do it if we do it together and we do it with joy.so for dr. khan and for all of those who sacrificed their lives on the front lines in this fight with us always, let us be in this fight with them always. and let us not let the world be defined by the destruction wrought by one virus, but illuminated by billions of hearts and minds working in unity.thank you. <title = "Special Olympics let me be myself -- a champion">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'bullying', 'community', 'disability', 'health', 'identity', 'inequality', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'play', 'potential', 'self', 'social change', 'sports']">
<occupation = "Special Olympics International Sargent Shriver Global Messenger">
hello. my name is matthew williams, and i am a champion. i have won medals in three different sports and national games in canada, competed at the international level in basketball and was proud to represent canada on the world stage. i train five days a week for basketball and speed skating, work with top quality coaches and mental performance consultants to be at my best in my sport. by the way, all that is through special olympics. does that change the way you think of me and my accomplishments?the world does not see all people like me as champions. not long ago, people like me were shunned and hidden away. there has been lots of change since special olympics began in 1968, but in too many cases, people with intellectual disabilities are invisible to the wider population. people use the r-word in front of me, and they think it doesn't matter. that's the word "retard" or "retarded" used in a derogatory manner. they're not thinking about how much it hurts me and my friends.i don't want you to think i'm here because i'm a charity case. i am here because there is still a big problem with the way many people see individuals with intellectual disabilities, or, too often, how they don't see them at all.did you know the world games happened this year? i was one of over 6,500 athletes with intellectual disabilities from 165 countries who competed in la. there was over 62,000 spectators watching opening ceremonies, and there was live coverage on tsn and espn. did you even know that happened?what do you think of when you see someone like me? i am here today to challenge you to look at us as equals.special olympics transforms the self-identity of athletes with intellectual disabilities and the perceptions of everyone watching. for those of you who aren't familiar, special olympics is for athletes with intellectual disabilities. special olympics is separate from the paralympics and olympics. we offer high-quality, year round sports programs for people with intellectual disabilities that changes lives and perceptions. this movement has changed my life and those of so many others. and it has changed the way the world sees people with intellectual disabilities.i was born with epilepsy and an intellectual disability. growing up, i played hockey until i was 12 years old. the older i got, the more i felt it was harder to keep up with everyone else, and i was angry and frustrated. for a while, i did not play any sports, didn't have many friends and felt left out and sad.there was a time when people with intellectual disabilities were hidden away from society. no one thought they could participate in sports, let alone be a valued member of society. in the 1960s, dr. frank hayden, a scientist at the university of toronto, was studying the effects of regular exercise on the fitness levels of children with intellectual disabilities. using rigorous scientific research, dr. hayden and other researchers came to the conclusion that it was simply the lack of opportunity to participate that caused their fitness levels to suffer.lots of people doubted that people with intellectual disabilities could benefit from fitness programs and sports competition opportunities. but pioneers like dr. hayden and eunice kennedy shriver, the founder of special olympics, persevered, and special olympics athletes have proved them right four and a half million times over. before i joined special olympics, i was nervous because i was young, shy, not confident and didn't have many friends. when i got there, though, everyone was very encouraging, supportive, and let me be myself without being judged. now, i am a basketball player and speed skater who has competed at provincial, national games, and this year made it all the way to the world summer games in la, where i was part of the first ever canadian basketball team to compete at world games. i am one of more than four and a half million athletes around the globe, and i've heard so many similar stories. being special olympics athletes restores our pride and dignity.special olympics also addresses critical health needs. studies have shown that, on average, men with intellectual disabilities die 13 years younger than men without, and women with intellectual disabilities die 20 years younger than women without. special olympics keeps us healthy by getting us active and participating in sport. also, our coaches teach us about nutrition and health. special olympics also provides free health screening for athletes who have difficulty communicating with their doctor or accessing health care.at the 2015 world summer games, my team canada teammates and i played the nigerian basketball team. the day before our game, the nigerian basketball team went to the world games healthy athlete screening, where seven of 10 members were given hearing aids for free and got to hear clearly for the first time. the change in them was amazing. they were more excited, happy and confident, because their coach could vocally communicate with them. and they were emotional because they could hear the sounds of the basketball, the sounds of the whistle and the cheering fans in the stands — sounds that we take for granted. special olympics is transforming more than just the athlete in their sport. special olympics is transforming their lives off the field. this year, research findings showed that nearly half of the adults in the us don't know a single person with an intellectual disability, and the 44 percent of americans who don't have personal contact with intellectual disabilities are significantly less accepting and positive.then there's the r-word, proving that people with intellectual disabilities are still invisible to far too many people. people use it as a casual term or an insult. it was tweeted more than nine million times last year, and it is deeply hurtful to me and my four and a half million fellow athletes around the planet. people don't think it's insulting, but it is. as my fellow athlete and global messenger john franklin stephens wrote in an open letter to a political pundit who used the r-word as an insult, "come join us someday at special olympics. see if you walk away with your heart unchanged." this year, at the 2015 world summer games, people lined up for hours to get into the final night of powerlifting competition. so it was standing room only when my teammate jackie barrett, the newfoundland moose, deadlifted 655 pounds and lifted 611 pounds in the squat — setting huge new records for special olympics. jackie is a record holder among all powerlifters in newfoundland — not just special olympics, all powerlifters. jackie was a huge star in la, and espn live-tweeted his record-breaking lifts and were wowed by his performance.fifty years ago, few imagined individuals with intellectual disabilities could do anything like that. this year, 60,000 spectators filled the famous la memorial coliseum to watch the opening ceremonies of world games and cheer athletes from 165 countries around the world. far from being hidden away, we were cheered and celebrated. special olympics teaches athletes to be confident and proud of themselves. special olympics teaches the world that people with intellectual disabilities deserve respect and inclusion. now, i have dreams and achievements in my sport, great coaches, respect and dignity, better health, and i am pursuing a career as a personal trainer. i am no longer hidden, bullied and i am here doing a ted talk. the world is a different place because of special olympics, but there is still farther to go. so the next time you see someone with an intellectual disability, i hope you will see their ability. the next time someone uses the r-word near you, i hope you will tell them how much it hurts. i hope you will think about getting involved with special olympics. i would like to leave you with one final thought. nelson mandela said, "sports has the power to change the world." special olympics is changing the world by transforming four and a half million athletes and giving us a place to be confident, meet friends, not be judged and get to feel like and be champions.thank you very much. <title = "Economic growth has stalled. Let's fix it">
<tags = "['United States', 'business', 'capitalism', 'china', 'democracy', 'economics', 'finance', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'money', 'policy', 'society']">
<occupation = "Global economist ">
our ability to create and sustain economic growth is the defining challenge of our time.of course there are other challenges — health care, disease burdens and pandemics, environmental challenges and, of course, radicalized terrorism. however, to the extent that we can actually solve the economic growth challenge, it will take us a long way to solving the challenges that i've just elucidated.more importantly, unless and until we solve economic growth and create sustainable, long-term economic growth, we'll be unable to address the seemingly intractable challenges that continue to pervade the globe today, whether it's health care, education or economic development.the fundamental question is this: how are we going to create economic growth in advanced and developed economies like the united states and across europe at a time when they continue to struggle to create economic growth after the financial crisis?they continue to underperform and to see an erosion in the three key drivers of economic growth: capital, labor and productivity. in particular, these developed economies continue to see debts and deficits, the decline and erosion of both the quality and quantity of labor and they also see productivity stalling.in a similar vein, how are we going to create economic growth in the emerging markets, where 90 percent of the world's population lives and where, on average, 70 percent of the population is under the age of 25? in these countries, it is essential that they grow at a minimum of seven percent a year in order to put a dent in poverty and to double per capita incomes in one generation. and yet today, the largest emerging economies — countries with at least 50 million people — continue to struggle to reach that seven percent magic mark. worse than that, countries like india, russia, south africa, brazil and even china are falling below that seven percent number and, in many cases, actually regressing.economic growth matters. with economic growth, countries and societies enter into a virtuous cycle of upward mobility, opportunity and improved living standards. without growth, countries contract and atrophy, not just in the annals of economic statistics but also in the meaning of life and how lives are lived. economic growth matters powerfully for the individual. if growth wanes, the risk to human progress and the risk of political and social instability rises, and societies become dimmer, coarser and smaller.the context matters. and countries in emerging markets do not need to grow at the same rates as developed countries.now, i know some of you in this room find this to be a risky proposition. there are some people here who will turn around and be quite disillusioned by what's happened around the world and basically ascribe that to economic growth. you worry about the overpopulation of the planet. and looking at the un's recent statistics and projections that the world will have 11 billion people on the planet before it plateaus in 2100, you're concerned about what that does to natural resources — arable land, potable water, energy and minerals. you are also concerned about the degradation of the environment. and you worry about how man, embodied in the corporate globalist, has become greedy and corrupt.but i'm here to tell you today that economic growth has been the backbone of changes in living standards of millions of people around the world. and more importantly, it's not just economic growth that has been driven by capitalism.the definition of capitalism, very simply put, is that the factors of production, such as trade and industry, capital and labor, are left in the hands of the private sector and not the state.it's really essential here that we understand that fundamentally the critique is not for economic growth per se but what has happened to capitalism. and to the extent that we need to create economic growth over the long term, we're going to have to pursue it with a better form of economic stance.economic growth needs capitalism, but it needs it to work properly. and as i mentioned a moment ago, the core of the capitalist system has been defined by private actors. and even this, however, is a very simplistic dichotomy. capitalism: good; non-capitalism: bad. when in practical experience, capitalism is much more of a spectrum. and we have countries such as china, which have practiced more state capitalism, and we have countries like the unites states which are more market capitalist.our efforts to critique the capitalist system, however, have tended to focus on countries like china that are in fact not blatantly market capitalism.however, there is a real reason and real concern for us to now focus our attentions on purer forms of capitalism, particularly those embodied by the united states. this is really important because this type of capitalism has increasingly been afforded the critique that it is now fostering corruption and, worse still, it's increasing income inequality — the idea that the few are benefiting at the expense of the many.the two really critical questions that we need to address is how can we fix capitalism so that it can help create economic growth but at the same time can help to address social ills.in order to think about that framing, we have to ask ourselves, how does capitalism work today? very simplistically, capitalism is set on the basis of an individual utility maximizer — a selfish individual who goes after what he or she wants. and only after they've maximized their utility do they then decide it's important to provide support to other social contracts. of course, in this system governments do tax, and they use part of their revenues to fund social programs, recognizing that government's role is not just regulation but also to be arbiter of social goods. but nevertheless, this framework — this two-stage framework — is the basis from which we must now start to think about how we can improve the capitalist model.i would argue that there are two sides to this challenge. first of all, we can draw on the right-wing policies to see what could be beneficial for us to think about how we can improve capitalism.in particular, right-leaning policies have tended to focus on things like conditional transfers, where we pay and reward people for doing the things that we actually think can help enhance economic growth. for example, sending children to school, parents could earn money for that, or getting their children inoculated or immunized, parents could get paid for doing that.now, quite apart from the debate on whether or not we should be paying people to do what we think they should do anyway, the fact of the matter is that pay for performance has actually yielded some positive results in places like mexico, in brazil and also in pilot programs in new york.but there are also benefits and significant changes underway on left-leaning policies. arguments that government should expand its role and responsibility so that it's not so narrowly defined and that government should be much more of an arbiter of the factors of production have become commonplace with the success of china. but also we've started to have debates about how the role of the private sector should move away from just being a profit motive and really be more engaged in the delivery of social programs. things like the corporate social responsibility programs, albeit small in scale, are moving in that right direction. of course, left-leaning policies have also tended to blur the lines between government, ngos and private sector.two very good examples of this are the 19th-century united states, when the infrastructure rollout was really about public-private partnerships. more recently, of course, the advent of the internet has also proven to the world that public and private can work together for the betterment of society.my fundamental message to you is this: we cannot continue to try and solve the world economic growth challenges by being dogmatic and being unnecessarily ideological. in order to create sustainable, long-term economic growth and solve the challenges and social ills that continue to plague the world today, we're going to have to be more broad-minded about what might work.ultimately, we have to recognize that ideology is the enemy of growth.thank you. bruno giussani: i want to ask a couple of questions, dambisa, because one could react to your last sentence by saying growth is also an ideology, it's possibly the dominant ideology of our times. what do you say to those who react that way?dm: well, i think that that's completely legitimate, and i think that we're already having that discussion. there's a lot of work going on around happiness and other metrics being used for measuring people's success and improvements in living standards. and so i think that we should be open to what could deliver improvements in people's living standards and continue to reduce poverty around the world.bg: so you're basically pleading for rehabilitating growth, but the only way for that happen without compromising the capacity of the earth, to take us on a long journey, is for economic growth somehow to decouple from the underlying use of resources. do you see that happening?dm: well, i think that i'm more optimistic about human ability and ingenuity. i think if we start to constrain ourselves using the finite, scarce and depleting resources that we know today, we could get quite negative and quite concerned about the way the world is.however, we've seen the club of rome, we've seen previous claims that the world would be running out of resources, and it's not to argue that those things are not valid. but i think, with ingenuity we could see desalination, i think we could reinvest in energy, so that we can actually get better outcomes. and so in that sense, i'm much more optimistic about what humans can do.bg: the thing that strikes me about your proposals for rehabilitating growth and taking a different direction is that you're kind of suggesting to fix capitalism with more capitalism — with putting a price tag on good behavior as incentive or developing a bigger role for business in social issues. is that what you're suggesting?dm: i'm suggesting we have to be open-minded. i think it is absolutely the case that traditional models of economic growth are not working the way we would like them to. and i think it's no accident that today the largest economy in the world, the united states, has democracy, liberal democracy, as it's core political stance and it has free market capitalism — to the extent that it is free — free market capitalism as its economic stance. the second largest economy is china. it has deprioritized democracy and it has state capitalism, which is a completely different model. these two countries, completely different political models and completely different economic models, and yet they have the same income inequality number measured as a gini coefficient.i think those are the debates we should have, because it's not clear at all what model we should be adopting, and i think there needs to be much more discourse and much more humility about what we know and what we don't know.bg: one last question. the cop21 is going on in paris. if you could send a tweet to all the heads of state and heads of delegations there, what would you say?dm: again, i would be very much about being open-minded. as you're aware, the issues around the environmental concerns have been on the agenda many times now — in copenhagen, '72 in stockholm — and we keep revisiting these issues partly because there is not a fundamental agreement, in fact there's a schism between what the developed countries believe and want and what emerging market countries want. emerging market countries need to continue to create economic growth so that we don't have political uncertainty in the those countries. developed countries recognize that they have a real, important responsibility not only just to manage their co2 emissions and some of the degradation that they're contributing to the world, but also as trendsetters in r&d. and so they have to come to the table as well. but in essence, it cannot be a situation where we start ascribing policies to the emerging markets without developed countries themselves also taking quite a swipe at what they're doing both in demand and supply in developed markets.bg: dambisa, thank you for coming to ted. dm: thank you very much. <title = "Shape-shifting tech will change work as we know it">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'creativity', 'design', 'engineering', 'future', 'industrial design', 'innovation', 'invention', 'materials', 'potential', 'product design', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Human-computer interaction researcher and designer">
we've evolved with tools, and tools have evolved with us. our ancestors created these hand axes 1.5 million years ago, shaping them to not only fit the task at hand but also their hand.however, over the years, tools have become more and more specialized. these sculpting tools have evolved through their use, and each one has a different form which matches its function. and they leverage the dexterity of our hands in order to manipulate things with much more precision. but as tools have become more and more complex, we need more complex controls to control them. and so designers have become very adept at creating interfaces that allow you to manipulate parameters while you're attending to other things, such as taking a photograph and changing the focus or the aperture.but the computer has fundamentally changed the way we think about tools because computation is dynamic. so it can do a million different things and run a million different applications. however, computers have the same static physical form for all of these different applications and the same static interface elements as well. and i believe that this is fundamentally a problem, because it doesn't really allow us to interact with our hands and capture the rich dexterity that we have in our bodies. and my belief is that, then, we must need new types of interfaces that can capture these rich abilities that we have and that can physically adapt to us and allow us to interact in new ways. and so that's what i've been doing at the mit media lab and now at stanford.so with my colleagues, daniel leithinger and hiroshi ishii, we created inform, where the interface can actually come off the screen and you can physically manipulate it. or you can visualize 3d information physically and touch it and feel it to understand it in new ways. or you can interact through gestures and direct deformations to sculpt digital clay. or interface elements can arise out of the surface and change on demand. and the idea is that for each individual application, the physical form can be matched to the application. and i believe this represents a new way that we can interact with information, by making it physical.so the question is, how can we use this? traditionally, urban planners and architects build physical models of cities and buildings to better understand them. so with tony tang at the media lab, we created an interface built on inform to allow urban planners to design and view entire cities. and now you can walk around it, but it's dynamic, it's physical, and you can also interact directly. or you can look at different views, such as population or traffic information, but it's made physical.we also believe that these dynamic shape displays can really change the ways that we remotely collaborate with people. so when we're working together in person, i'm not only looking at your face but i'm also gesturing and manipulating objects, and that's really hard to do when you're using tools like skype. and so using inform, you can reach out from the screen and manipulate things at a distance. so we used the pins of the display to represent people's hands, allowing them to actually touch and manipulate objects at a distance. and you can also manipulate and collaborate on 3d data sets as well, so you can gesture around them as well as manipulate them. and that allows people to collaborate on these new types of 3d information in a richer way than might be possible with traditional tools. and so you can also bring in existing objects, and those will be captured on one side and transmitted to the other. or you can have an object that's linked between two places, so as i move a ball on one side, the ball moves on the other as well. and so we do this by capturing the remote user using a depth-sensing camera like a microsoft kinect.now, you might be wondering how does this all work, and essentially, what it is, is 900 linear actuators that are connected to these mechanical linkages that allow motion down here to be propagated in these pins above. so it's not that complex compared to what's going on at cern, but it did take a long time for us to build it. and so we started with a single motor, a single linear actuator, and then we had to design a custom circuit board to control them. and then we had to make a lot of them. and so the problem with having 900 of something is that you have to do every step 900 times. and so that meant that we had a lot of work to do. so we sort of set up a mini-sweatshop in the media lab and brought undergrads in and convinced them to do "research" — and had late nights watching movies, eating pizza and screwing in thousands of screws. you know — research. but anyway, i think that we were really excited by the things that inform allowed us to do. increasingly, we're using mobile devices, and we interact on the go. but mobile devices, just like computers, are used for so many different applications. so you use them to talk on the phone, to surf the web, to play games, to take pictures or even a million different things. but again, they have the same static physical form for each of these applications. and so we wanted to know how can we take some of the same interactions that we developed for inform and bring them to mobile devices.so at stanford, we created this haptic edge display, which is a mobile device with an array of linear actuators that can change shape, so you can feel in your hand where you are as you're reading a book. or you can feel in your pocket new types of tactile sensations that are richer than the vibration. or buttons can emerge from the side that allow you to interact where you want them to be. or you can play games and have actual buttons. and so we were able to do this by embedding 40 small, tiny linear actuators inside the device, and that allow you not only to touch them but also back-drive them as well.but we've also looked at other ways to create more complex shape change. so we've used pneumatic actuation to create a morphing device where you can go from something that looks a lot like a phone ... to a wristband on the go. and so together with ken nakagaki at the media lab, we created this new high-resolution version that uses an array of servomotors to change from interactive wristband to a touch-input device to a phone. and we're also interested in looking at ways that users can actually deform the interfaces to shape them into the devices that they want to use. so you can make something like a game controller, and then the system will understand what shape it's in and change to that mode.so, where does this point? how do we move forward from here? i think, really, where we are today is in this new age of the internet of things, where we have computers everywhere — they're in our pockets, they're in our walls, they're in almost every device that you'll buy in the next five years. but what if we stopped thinking about devices and think instead about environments? and so how can we have smart furniture or smart rooms or smart environments or cities that can adapt to us physically, and allow us to do new ways of collaborating with people and doing new types of tasks?so for the milan design week, we created transform, which is an interactive table-scale version of these shape displays, which can move physical objects on the surface; for example, reminding you to take your keys. but it can also transform to fit different ways of interacting. so if you want to work, then it can change to sort of set up your work system. and so as you bring a device over, it creates all the affordances you need and brings other objects to help you accomplish those goals.so, in conclusion, i really think that we need to think about a new, fundamentally different way of interacting with computers. we need computers that can physically adapt to us and adapt to the ways that we want to use them and really harness the rich dexterity that we have of our hands, and our ability to think spatially about information by making it physical. but looking forward, i think we need to go beyond this, beyond devices, to really think about new ways that we can bring people together, and bring our information into the world, and think about smart environments that can adapt to us physically. so with that, i will leave you.thank you very much. <title = "How I'm discovering the secrets of ancient texts">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'ancient world', 'archaeology', 'books', 'computers', 'creativity', 'culture', 'history', 'library', 'literature', 'science', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Textual scientist">
on january 26, 2013, a band of al-qaeda militants entered the ancient city of timbuktu on the southern edge of the sahara desert. there, they set fire to a medieval library of 30,000 manuscripts written in arabic and several african languages and ranging in subject from astronomy to geography, history to medicine, including one book which records perhaps the first treatment for male erectile dysfunction. unknown in the west, this was the collected wisdom of an entire continent, the voice of africa at a time when africa was thought not to have a voice at all. the mayor of bamako, who witnessed the event, called the burning of the manuscripts "a crime against world cultural heritage." and he was right — or he would have been, if it weren't for the fact that he was also lying.in fact, just before, african scholars had collected a random assortment of old books and left them out for the terrorists to burn. today, the collection lies hidden in bamako, the capital of mali, moldering in the high humidity. what was rescued by ruse is now once again in jeopardy, this time by climate.but africa, and the far-flung corners of the world, are not the only places, or even the main places in which manuscripts that could change the history of world culture are in jeopardy. several years ago, i conducted a survey of european research libraries and discovered that, at the barest minimum, there are 60,000 manuscripts pre-1500 that are illegible because of water damage, fading, mold and chemical reagents. the real number is likely double that, and that doesn't even count renaissance manuscripts and modern manuscripts and cultural heritage objects such as maps.what if there were a technology that could recover these lost and unknown works? imagine worldwide how a trove of hundreds of thousands of previously unknown texts could radically transform our knowledge of the past. imagine what unknown classics we would discover which would rewrite the canons of literature, history, philosophy, music — or, more provocatively, that could rewrite our cultural identities, building new bridges between people and culture. these are the questions that transformed me from a medieval scholar, a reader of texts, into a textual scientist.what an unsatisfying word "reader" is. for me, it conjures up images of passivity, of someone sitting idly in an armchair waiting for knowledge to come to him in a neat little parcel. how much better to be a participant in the past, an adventurer in an undiscovered country, searching for the hidden text. as an academic, i was a mere reader. i read and taught the same classics that people had been reading and teaching for hundreds of years — virgil, ovid, chaucer, petrarch — and with every scholarly article that i published i added to human knowledge in ever-diminishing slivers of insight. what i wanted to be was an archaeologist of the past, a discoverer of literature, an indiana jones without the whip — or, actually, with the whip. and i wanted it not just for myself but i wanted it for my students as well.and so six years ago, i changed the direction of my career. at the time, i was working on "the chess of love," the last important long poem of the european middle ages never to have been edited. and it wasn't edited because it existed in only one manuscript which was so badly damaged during the firebombing of dresden in world war ii that generations of scholars had pronounced it lost. for five years, i had been working with an ultraviolet lamp trying to recover traces of the writing and i'd gone about as far as technology at the time could actually take me.and so i did what many people do. i went online, and there i learned about how multispectral imaging had been used to recover two lost treatises of the famed greek mathematician archimedes from a 13th-century palimpsest. a palimpsest is a manuscript which has been erased and overwritten.and so, out of the blue, i decided to write to the lead imaging scientist on the archimedes palimpsest project, professor roger easton, with a plan and a plea. and to my surprise, he actually wrote back. with his help, i was able to win a grant from the us government to build a transportable, multispectral imaging lab, and with this lab, i transformed what was a charred and faded mess into a new medieval classic.so how does multispectral imaging actually work? well, the idea behind multispectral imaging is something that anyone who is familiar with infrared night vision goggles will immediately appreciate: that what we can see in the visible spectrum of light is only a tiny fraction of what's actually there. the same is true with invisible writing. our system uses 12 wavelengths of light between the ultraviolet and the infrared, and these are shown down onto the manuscript from above from banks of leds, and another multispectral light source which comes up through the individual leaves of the manuscript. up to 35 images per sequence per leaf are imaged this way using a high-powered digital camera equipped with a lens which is made out of quartz. there are about five of these in the world. and once we capture these images, we feed them through statistical algorithms to further enhance and clarify them, using software which was originally designed for satellite images and used by people like geospatial scientists and the cia.the results can be spectacular. you may already have heard of what's been done for the dead sea scrolls, which are slowly gelatinizing. using infrared, we've been able to read even the darkest corners of the dead sea scrolls. you may not be aware, however, of other biblical texts that are in jeopardy.here, for example, is a leaf from a manuscript that we imaged, which is perhaps the most valuable christian bible in the world. the codex vercellensis is the oldest translation of the gospels into latin, and it dates from the first half of the fourth century. this is the closest we can come to the bible at the time of the foundation of christendom under emperor constantine, and at the time also of the council of nicaea, when the basic creed of christianity was being agreed upon. this manuscript, unfortunately, has been very badly damaged, and it's damaged because for centuries it had been used and handled in swearing in ceremonies in the church. in fact, that purple splotch that you see in the upper left hand corner is aspergillus, which is a fungus which originates in the unwashed hands of a person with tuberculosis. our imaging has enabled me to make the first transcription of this manuscript in 250 years.having a lab that can travel to collections where it's needed, however, is only part of the solution. the technology is expensive and very rare, and the imaging and image processing skills are esoteric. that means that mounting recoveries is beyond the reach of most researchers and all but the wealthiest institutions. that's why i founded the lazarus project, a not-for-profit initiative to bring multispectral imaging to individual researchers and smaller institutions at little or no cost whatsoever. over the past five years, our team of imaging scientists, scholars and students has travelled to seven different countries and have recovered some of the world's most valuable damaged manuscripts, included the vercelli book, which is the oldest book of english, the black book of carmarthen, the oldest book of welsh, and some of the most valuable earliest gospels located in what is now the former soviet georgia.so, spectral imaging can recover lost texts. more subtly, though, it can recover a second story behind every object, the story of how, when and by whom a text was created, and, sometimes, what the author was thinking at the time he wrote. take, for example, a draft of the declaration of independence written in thomas jefferson's own hand, which some colleagues of mine imaged a few years ago at the library of congress. curators had noticed that one word throughout had been scratched out and overwritten. the word overwritten was "citizens." perhaps you can guess what the word underneath was. "subjects." there, ladies and gentlemen, is american democracy evolving under the hand of thomas jefferson.or consider the 1491 martellus map, which we imaged at yale's beinecke library. this was the map that columbus likely consulted before he traveled to the new world and which gave him his idea of what asia looked like and where japan was located. the problem with this map is that its inks and pigments had so degraded over time that this large, nearly seven-foot map, made the world look like a giant desert. until now, we had very little idea, detailed idea, that is, of what columbus knew of the world and how world cultures were represented. the main legend of the map was entirely illegible under normal light. ultraviolet did very little for it. multispectral gave us everything. in asia, we learned of monsters with ears so long that they could cover the creature's entire body. in africa, about a snake who could cause the ground to smoke. like starlight, which can convey images of the way the universe looked in the distant past, so multispectral light can take us back to the first stuttering moments of an object's creation. through this lens, we witness the mistakes, the changes of mind, the naïvetés, the uncensored thoughts, the imperfections of the human imagination that allow these hallowed objects and their authors to become more real, that make history closer to us.what about the future? there's so much of the past, and so few people with the skills to rescue it before these objects disappear forever. that's why i have begun to teach this new hybrid discipline that i call "textual science." textual science is a marriage of the traditional skills of a literary scholar — the ability to read old languages and old handwriting, the knowledge of how texts are made in order to be able to place and date them — with new techniques like imaging science, the chemistry of inks and pigments, computer-aided optical character recognition.last year, a student in my class, a freshman, with a background in latin and greek, was image-processing a palimpsest that we had photographed at a famous library in rome. as he worked, tiny greek writing began to appear from behind the text. everyone gathered around, and he read a line from a lost work of the greek comic dramatist menander. this was the first time in well over a thousand years that those words had been pronounced aloud. in that moment, he became a scholar.ladies and gentlemen, that is the future of the past.thank you very much. <title = "The case for fish farming">
<tags = "['big problems', 'biodiversity', 'business', 'consumerism', 'ecology', 'environment', 'fish', 'food', 'global issues', 'innovation', 'mission blue', 'oceans', 'sustainability']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur and conservationist">
so i come from the tallest people on the planet — the dutch. it hasn't always been this way. in fact, all across the globe, people have been gaining height. in the last 150 years, in developed countries, on average, we have gotten 10 centimeters taller. and scientists have a lot of theories about why this is, but almost all of them involve nutrition, namely the increase of dairy and meat.in the last 50 years, global meat consumption has more than quadrupled, from 71 million tons to 310 million tons. something similar has been going on with milk and eggs. in every society where incomes have risen, so has protein consumption. and we know that globally, we are getting richer. and as the middle class is on the rise, so is our global population, from 7 billion of us today to 9.7 billion by 2050, which means that by 2050, we are going to need at least 70 percent more protein than what is available to humankind today. and the latest prediction of the un puts that population number, by the end of this century, at 11 billion, which means that we are going to need a lot more protein.this challenge is staggering — so much so, that recently, a team at anglia ruskin global sustainability institute suggested that if we don't change our global policies and food production systems, our societies might actually collapse in the next 30 years.currently, our ocean serves as the main source of animal protein. over 2.6 billion people depend on it every single day. at the same time, our global fisheries are two-and-a-half times larger than what our oceans can sustainably support, meaning that humans take far more fish from the ocean than the oceans can naturally replace.wwf recently published a report showing that just in the last 40 years, our global marine life has been slashed in half. and another recent report suggests that of our largest predatory species, such as swordfish and bluefin tuna, over 90 percent has disappeared since the 1950s.and there are a lot of great, sustainable fishing initiatives across the planet working towards better practices and better-managed fisheries. but ultimately, all of these initiatives are working towards keeping current catch constant. it's unlikely, even with the best-managed fisheries, that we are going to be able to take much more from the ocean than we do today.we have to stop plundering our oceans the way we have. we need to alleviate the pressure on it. and we are at a point where if we push much harder for more produce, we might face total collapse. our current systems are not going to feed a growing global population.so how do we fix this? what's the world going to look like in just 35 short years when there's 2.7 billion more of us sharing the same resources? we could all become vegan. sounds like a great idea, but it's not realistic and it's impossibly hard to mandate globally.people are eating animal protein whether we like it or not. and suppose we fail to change our ways and continue on the current path, failing to meet demands.the world health organization recently reported that 800 million people are suffering from malnutrition and food shortage, which is due to that same growing, global population and the declining access to resources like water, energy and land. it takes very little imagination to picture a world of global unrest, riots and further malnutrition. people are hungry, and we are running dangerously low on natural resources. for so, so many reasons, we need to change our global food production systems.we must do better and there is a solution. and that solution lies in aquaculture — the farming of fish, plants like seaweed, shellfish and crustaceans. as the great ocean hero jacques cousteau once said, "we must start using the ocean as farmers instead of hunters. that's what civilization is all about — farming instead of hunting." fish is the last food that we hunt.and why is it that we keep hearing phrases like, "life's too short for farmed fish," or, "wild-caught, of course!" over fish that we know virtually nothing about? we don't know what it ate during its lifetime, and we don't know what pollution it encounters. and if it was a large predatory species, it might have gone through the coast of fukushima yesterday. we don't know. very few people realize the traceability in fisheries never goes beyond the hunter that caught the wild animal.but let's back up for a second and talk about why fish is the best food choice. it's healthy, it prevents heart disease, it provides key amino acids and key fatty acids like omega-3s, which is very different from almost any other type of meat. and aside from being healthy, it's also a lot more exciting and diverse.think about it — most animal farming is pretty monotonous. cow is cow, sheep is sheep, pig's pig, and poultry — turkey, duck, chicken — pretty much sums it up. and then there's 500 species of fish being farmed currently. not that western supermarkets reflect that on their shelves, but that's beside that point.and you can farm fish in a very healthy manner that's good for us, good for the planet and good for the fish. i know i sound fish-obsessed — let me explain: my brilliant partner and wife, amy novograntz, and i got involved in aquaculture a couple of years ago. we were inspired by sylvia earle, who won the ted prize in 2009. we actually met on mission blue i in the galapagos. amy was there as the ted prize director; me, an entrepreneur from the netherlands and concerned citizen, love to dive, passion for the oceans.mission blue truly changed our lives. we fell in love, got married and we came away really inspired, thinking we really want to do something about ocean conservation — something that was meant to last, that could make a real difference and something that we could do together.little did we expect that that would lead us to fish farming. but a few months after we got off the boat, we got to a meeting at conservation international, where the director general of worldfish was talking about aquaculture, asking a room full of environmentalists to stop turning from it, realize what was going on and to really get involved because aquaculture has the potential to be just what our oceans and populations need.we were stunned when we heard the stats that we didn't know more about this industry already and excited about the chance to help get it right.and to talk about stats — right now, the amount of fish consumed globally, wild catch and farmed combined, is twice the tonnage of the total amount of beef produced on planet earth last year. every single fishing vessel combined, small and large, across the globe, together produce about 65 million tons of wild-caught seafood for human consumption.aquaculture this year, for the first time in history, actually produces more than what we catch from the wild.but now this: demand is going to go up. in the next 35 years, we are going to need an additional 85 million tons to meet demand, which is one-and-a-half times as much, almost, as what we catch globally out of our oceans. an enormous number.it's safe to assume that that's not going to come from the ocean. it needs to come from farming. and talk about farming — for farming you need resources. as a human needs to eat to grow and stay alive, so does an animal. a cow needs to eat eight to nine pounds of feed and drink almost 8,000 liters of water to create just one pound of meat. experts agree that it's impossible to farm cows for every inhabitant on this planet. we just don't have enough feed or water.and we can't keep cutting down rain forests for it. and fresh water — planet earth has a very limited supply. we need something more efficient to keep humankind alive on this planet.and now let's compare that with fish farming. you can farm one pound of fish with just one pound of feed, and depending on species, even less. and why is that? well, that's because fish, first of all, float. they don't need to stand around all day resisting gravity like we do. and most fish are cold-blooded — they don't need to heat themselves. fish chills. and it needs very little water, which is counterintuitive, but as we say, it swims in it but it hardly drinks it. fish are the most resource-efficient animal protein available to humankind, aside from insects.how much we've learned since. for example, on top of that 65 million tons that's annually caught for human consumption, there's an additional 30 million tons caught for animal feed, mostly sardines and anchovies for the aquaculture industry that's turned into fish meal and fish oil.this is madness. sixty-five percent of these fisheries, globally, are badly managed. some of the worst issues of our time are connected to it. it's destroying our oceans. the worst slavery issues imaginable are connected to it. recently, an article came out of stanford saying that if 50 percent of the world's aquaculture industry would stop using fish meal, our oceans would be saved. now think about that for a minute.now, we know that the oceans have far more problems — they have pollution, there's acidification, coral reef destruction and so on. but it underlines the impact of our fisheries, and it underlines how interconnected everything is. fisheries, aquaculture, deforestation, climate change, food security and so on.in the search for alternatives, the industry, on a massive scale, has reverted to plant-based alternatives like soy, industrial chicken waste, blood meal from slaughterhouses and so on.and we understand where these choices come from, but this is not the right approach. it's not sustainable, it's not healthy. have you ever seen a chicken at the bottom of the ocean? of course not. if you feed salmon soy with nothing else, it literally explodes. salmon is a carnivore, it has no way to digest soy.now, fish farming is by far the best animal farming available to humankind. but it's had a really bad reputation. there's been excessive use of chemicals, there's been virus and disease transfered to wild populations, ecosystem destruction and pollution, escaped fish breeding with wild populations, altering the overall genetic pool, and then of course, as just mentioned, the unsustainable feed ingredients.how blessed were the days when we could just enjoy food that was on our plate, whatever it was. once you know, you know. you can't go back. it's not fun. we really need a transparent food system that we can trust, that produces healthy food.but the good news is that decades of development and research have led to a lot of new technologies and knowledge that allow us to do a lot better. we can now farm fish without any of these issues.i think of agriculture before the green revolution — we are at aquaculture and the blue revolution. new technologies means that we can now produce a feed that's perfectly natural, with a minimal footprint that consists of microbes, insects, seaweeds and micro-algae. healthy for the people, healthy for the fish, healthy for the planet.microbes, for example, can be a perfect alternative for high-grade fish meal — at scale.insects are the — well, first of all, the perfect recycling because they're grown on food waste; but second, think of fly-fishing, and you know how logical it actually is to use it as fish feed. you don't need large tracts of land for it and you don't need to cut down rain forests for it. and microbes and insects are actually net water producers.this revolution is starting as we speak, it just needs scale. we can now farm far more species than ever before in controlled, natural conditions, creating happy fish.i imagine, for example, a closed system that's performing more efficiently than insect farming, where you can produce healthy, happy, delicious fish with little or no effluent, almost no energy and almost no water and a natural feed with a minimal footprint. or a system where you grow up to 10 species next to each other — off of each other, mimicking nature. you need very little feed, very little footprint. i think of seaweed growing off the effluent of fish, for example.there's great technologies popping up all over the globe. from alternatives to battle disease so we don't need antibiotics and chemicals anymore, to automated feeders that feel when the fish are hungry, so we can save on feed and create less pollution. software systems that gather data across farms, so we can improve farm practices.there's really cool stuff happening all over the globe. and make no mistake — all of these things are possible at a cost that's competitive to what a farmer spends today. tomorrow, there will be no excuse for anyone to not do the right thing.so somebody needs to connect the dots and give these developments a big kick in the butt. and that's what we've been working on the last couple of years, and that's what we need to be working on together — rethinking everything from the ground up, with a holistic view across the value chain, connecting all these things across the globe, alongside great entrepreneurs that are willing to share a collective vision.now is the time to create change in this industry and to push it into a sustainable direction. this industry is still young, much of its growth is still ahead. it's a big task, but not as far-fetched as you might think. it's possible.so we need to take pressure off the ocean. we want to eat good and healthy. and if we eat an animal, it needs to be one that had a happy and healthy life.we need to have a meal that we can trust, live long lives. and this is not just for people in san francisco or northern europe — this is for all of us. even in the poorest countries, it's not just about money. people prefer something fresh and healthy that they can trust over something that comes from far away that they know nothing about. we're all the same.the day will come where people will realize — no, demand — farmed fish on their plate that's farmed well and that's farmed healthy — and refuse anything less.you can help speed this up. ask questions when you order seafood. where does my fish come from? who raised it, and what did it eat? information about where your fish comes from and how it was produced needs to be much more readily available. and consumers need to put pressure on the aquaculture industry to do the right thing.so every time you order, ask for detail and show that you really care about what you eat and what's been given to you. and eventually, they will listen. and all of us will benefit.thank you. <title = "The problem with race-based medicine">
<tags = "['Slavery', 'activism', 'big problems', 'disease', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'inequality', 'law', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'public health', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'sociology']">
<occupation = "Professor, author and social justice advocate">
15 years ago, i volunteered to participate in a research study that involved a genetic test. when i arrived at the clinic to be tested, i was handed a questionnaire. one of the very first questions asked me to check a box for my race: white, black, asian, or native american.i wasn't quite sure how to answer the question. was it aimed at measuring the diversity of research participants' social backgrounds? in that case, i would answer with my social identity, and check the box for "black." but what if the researchers were interested in investigating some association between ancestry and the risk for certain genetic traits? in that case, wouldn't they want to know something about my ancestry, which is just as much european as african? and how could they make scientific findings about my genes if i put down my social identity as a black woman? after all, i consider myself a black woman with a white father rather than a white woman with a black mother entirely for social reasons. which racial identity i check has nothing to do with my genes. well, despite the obvious importance of this question to the study's scientific validity, i was told, "don't worry about it, just put down however you identify yourself." so i check "black," but i had no confidence in the results of a study that treated a critical variable so unscientifically.that personal experience with the use of race in genetic testing got me thinking: where else in medicine is race used to make false biological predictions?well, i found out that race runs deeply throughout all of medical practice. it shapes physicians' diagnoses, measurements, treatments, prescriptions, even the very definition of diseases. and the more i found out, the more disturbed i became.sociologists like me have long explained that race is a social construction. when we identify people as black, white, asian, native american, latina, we're referring to social groupings with made up demarcations that have changed over time and vary around the world. as a legal scholar, i've also studied how lawmakers, not biologists, have invented the legal definitions of races.and it's not just the view of social scientists. you remember when the map of the human genome was unveiled at a white house ceremony in june 2000? president bill clinton famously declared, "i believe one of the great truths to emerge from this triumphant expedition inside the human genome is that in genetic terms, human beings, regardless of race, are more than 99.9 percent the same." and he might have added that that less than one percent of genetic difference doesn't fall into racial boxes.francis collins, who led the human genome project and now heads nih, echoed president clinton. "i am happy that today, the only race we're talking about is the human race."doctors are supposed to practice evidence-based medicine, and they're increasingly called to join the genomic revolution. but their habit of treating patients by race lags far behind.take the estimate of glomerular filtration rate, or gfr. doctors routinely interpret gfr, this important indicator of kidney function, by race. as you can see in this lab test, the exact same creatinine level, the concentration in the blood of the patient, automatically produces a different gfr estimate depending on whether or not the patient is african-american. why?i've been told it's based on an assumption that african-americans have more muscle mass than people of other races. but what sense does it make for a doctor to automatically assume i have more muscle mass than that female bodybuilder? wouldn't it be far more accurate and evidence-based to determine the muscle mass of individual patients just by looking at them?well, doctors tell me they're using race as a shortcut. it's a crude but convenient proxy for more important factors, like muscle mass, enzyme level, genetic traits they just don't have time to look for. but race is a bad proxy. in many cases, race adds no relevant information at all. it's just a distraction. but race also tends to overwhelm the clinical measures. it blinds doctors to patients' symptoms, family illnesses, their history, their own illnesses they might have — all more evidence-based than the patient's race. race can't substitute for these important clinical measures without sacrificing patient well-being.doctors also tell me race is just one of many factors they take into account, but there are numerous medical tests, like the gfr, that use race categorically to treat black, white, asian patients differently just because of their race.race medicine also leaves patients of color especially vulnerable to harmful biases and stereotypes. black and latino patients are twice as likely to receive no pain medication as whites for the same painful long bone fractures because of stereotypes that black and brown people feel less pain, exaggerate their pain, and are predisposed to drug addiction.the food and drug administration has even approved a race-specific medicine. it's a pill called bidil to treat heart failure in self-identified african-american patients. a cardiologist developed this drug without regard to race or genetics, but it became convenient for commercial reasons to market the drug to black patients. the fda then allowed the company, the drug company, to test the efficacy in a clinical trial that only included african-american subjects. it speculated that race stood in as a proxy for some unknown genetic factor that affects heart disease or response to drugs. but think about the dangerous message it sent, that black people's bodies are so substandard, a drug tested in them is not guaranteed to work in other patients.in the end, the drug company's marketing scheme failed. for one thing, black patients were understandably wary of using a drug just for black people. one elderly black woman stood up in a community meeting and shouted, "give me what the white people are taking!" and if you find race-specific medicine surprising, wait until you learn that many doctors in the united states still use an updated version of a diagnostic tool that was developed by a physician during the slavery era, a diagnostic tool that is tightly linked to justifications for slavery.dr. samuel cartwright graduated from the university of pennsylvania medical school. he practiced in the deep south before the civil war, and he was a well-known expert on what was then called "negro medicine." he promoted the racial concept of disease, that people of different races suffer from different diseases and experience common diseases differently. cartwright argued in the 1850s that slavery was beneficial for black people for medical reasons. he claimed that because black people have lower lung capacity than whites, forced labor was good for them. he wrote in a medical journal, "it is the red vital blood sent to the brain that liberates their minds when under the white man's control, and it is the want of sufficiency of red vital blood that chains their minds to ignorance and barbarism when in freedom." to support this theory, cartwright helped to perfect a medical device for measuring breathing called the spirometer to show the presumed deficiency in black people's lungs.today, doctors still uphold cartwright's claim the black people as a race have lower lung capacity than white people. some even use a modern day spirometer that actually has a button labeled "race" so the machine adjusts the measurement for each patient according to his or her race. it's a well-known function called "correcting for race."the problem with race medicine extends far beyond misdiagnosing patients. its focus on innate racial differences in disease diverts attention and resources from the social determinants that cause appalling racial gaps in health: lack of access to high-quality medical care; food deserts in poor neighborhoods; exposure to environmental toxins; high rates of incarceration; and experiencing the stress of racial discrimination.you see, race is not a biological category that naturally produces these health disparities because of genetic difference. race is a social category that has staggering biological consequences, but because of the impact of social inequality on people's health. yet race medicine pretends the answer to these gaps in health can be found in a race-specific pill. it's much easier and more lucrative to market a technological fix for these gaps in health than to deal with the structural inequities that produce them.the reason i'm so passionate about ending race medicine isn't just because it's bad medicine. i'm also on this mission because the way doctors practice medicine continues to promote a false and toxic view of humanity. despite the many visionary breakthroughs in medicine we've been learning about, there's a failure of imagination when it comes to race. would you imagine with me, just a moment: what would happen if doctors stopped treating patients by race? suppose they rejected an 18th-century classification system and incorporated instead the most advanced knowledge of human genetic diversity and unity, that human beings cannot be categorized into biological races? what if, instead of using race as a crude proxy for some more important factor, doctors actually investigated and addressed that more important factor? what if doctors joined the forefront of a movement to end the structural inequities caused by racism, not by genetic difference?race medicine is bad medicine, it's poor science and it's a false interpretation of humanity. it is more urgent than ever to finally abandon this backward legacy and to affirm our common humanity by ending the social inequalities that truly divide us.thank you. thank you. thanks. thank you.<title = "The brain may be able to repair itself -- with help">
<tags = "['Surgery', 'brain', 'health', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'science']">
<occupation = "Functional neurosurgeon">
so i'm a neurosurgeon. and like most of my colleagues, i have to deal, every day, with human tragedies. i realize how your life can change from one second to the other after a major stroke or after a car accident. and what is very frustrating for us neurosurgeons is to realize that unlike other organs of the body, the brain has very little ability for self-repair. and after a major injury of your central nervous system, the patients often remain with a severe handicap. and that's probably the reason why i've chosen to be a functional neurosurgeon.what is a functional neurosurgeon? it's a doctor who is trying to improve a neurological function through different surgical strategies. you've certainly heard of one of the famous ones called deep brain stimulation, where you implant an electrode in the depths of the brain in order to modulate a circuit of neurons to improve a neurological function. it's really an amazing technology in that it has improved the destiny of patients with parkinson's disease, with severe tremor, with severe pain. however, neuromodulation does not mean neuro-repair. and the dream of functional neurosurgeons is to repair the brain. i think that we are approaching this dream.and i would like to show you that we are very close to this. and that with a little bit of help, the brain is able to help itself.so the story started 15 years ago. at that time, i was a chief resident working days and nights in the emergency room. i often had to take care of patients with head trauma. you have to imagine that when a patient comes in with a severe head trauma, his brain is swelling and he's increasing his intracranial pressure. and in order to save his life, you have to decrease this intracranial pressure. and to do that, you sometimes have to remove a piece of swollen brain. so instead of throwing away these pieces of swollen brain, we decided with jean-françois brunet, who is a colleague of mine, a biologist, to study them.what do i mean by that? we wanted to grow cells from these pieces of tissue. it's not an easy task. growing cells from a piece of tissue is a bit the same as growing very small children out from their family. so you need to find the right nutrients, the warmth, the humidity and all the nice environments to make them thrive. so that's exactly what we had to do with these cells. and after many attempts, jean-françois did it. and that's what he saw under his microscope.and that was, for us, a major surprise. why? because this looks exactly the same as a stem cell culture, with large green cells surrounding small, immature cells. and you may remember from biology class that stem cells are immature cells, able to turn into any type of cell of the body. the adult brain has stem cells, but they're very rare and they're located in deep and small niches in the depths of the brain. so it was surprising to get this kind of stem cell culture from the superficial part of swollen brain we had in the operating theater.and there was another intriguing observation: regular stem cells are very active cells — cells that divide, divide, divide very quickly. and they never die, they're immortal cells. but these cells behave differently. they divide slowly, and after a few weeks of culture, they even died. so we were in front of a strange new cell population that looked like stem cells but behaved differently.and it took us a long time to understand where they came from. they come from these cells. these blue and red cells are called doublecortin-positive cells. all of you have them in your brain. they represent four percent of your cortical brain cells. they have a very important role during the development stage. when you were fetuses, they helped your brain to fold itself. but why do they stay in your head? this, we don't know. we think that they may participate in brain repair because we find them in higher concentration close to brain lesions. but it's not so sure. but there is one clear thing — that from these cells, we got our stem cell culture. and we were in front of a potential new source of cells to repair the brain. and we had to prove this.so to prove it, we decided to design an experimental paradigm. the idea was to biopsy a piece of brain in a non-eloquent area of the brain, and then to culture the cells exactly the way jean-françois did it in his lab. and then label them, to put color in them in order to be able to track them in the brain. and the last step was to re-implant them in the same individual. we call these autologous grafts — autografts.so the first question we had, "what will happen if we re-implant these cells in a normal brain, and what will happen if we re-implant the same cells in a lesioned brain?" thanks to the help of professor eric rouiller, we worked with monkeys.so in the first-case scenario, we re-implanted the cells in the normal brain and what we saw is that they completely disappeared after a few weeks, as if they were taken from the brain, they go back home, the space is already busy, they are not needed there, so they disappear.in the second-case scenario, we performed the lesion, we re-implanted exactly the same cells, and in this case, the cells remained — and they became mature neurons. and that's the image of what we could observe under the microscope. those are the cells that were re-implanted. and the proof they carry, these little spots, those are the cells that we've labeled in vitro, when they were in culture.but we could not stop here, of course. do these cells also help a monkey to recover after a lesion? so for that, we trained monkeys to perform a manual dexterity task. they had to retrieve food pellets from a tray. they were very good at it. and when they had reached a plateau of performance, we did a lesion in the motor cortex corresponding to the hand motion. so the monkeys were plegic, they could not move their hand anymore. and exactly the same as humans would do, they spontaneously recovered to a certain extent, exactly the same as after a stroke. patients are completely plegic, and then they try to recover due to a brain plasticity mechanism, they recover to a certain extent, exactly the same for the monkey.so when we were sure that the monkey had reached his plateau of spontaneous recovery, we implanted his own cells. so on the left side, you see the monkey that has spontaneously recovered. he's at about 40 to 50 percent of his previous performance before the lesion. he's not so accurate, not so quick. and look now when we re-implant the cells: two months after re-implantation, the same individual. it was also very exciting results for us, i tell you. since that time, we've understood much more about these cells. we know that we can cryopreserve them, we can use them later on. we know that we can apply them in other neuropathological models, like parkinson's disease, for example. but our dream is still to implant them in humans. and i really hope that i'll be able to show you soon that the human brain is giving us the tools to repair itself.thank you. bruno giussani: jocelyne, this is amazing, and i'm sure that right now, there are several dozen people in the audience, possibly even a majority, who are thinking, "i know somebody who can use this." i do, in any case. and of course the question is, what are the biggest obstacles before you can go into human clinical trials?jocelyne bloch: the biggest obstacles are regulations. (laughs) so, from these exciting results, you need to fill out about two kilograms of papers and forms to be able to go through these kind of trials.bg: which is understandable, the brain is delicate, etc.jb: yes, it is, but it takes a long time and a lot of patience and almost a professional team to do it, you know?bg: if you project yourself — having done the research and having tried to get permission to start the trials, if you project yourself out in time, how many years before somebody gets into a hospital and this therapy is available?jb: so, it's very difficult to say. it depends, first, on the approval of the trial. will the regulation allow us to do it soon? and then, you have to perform this kind of study in a small group of patients. so it takes, already, a long time to select the patients, do the treatment and evaluate if it's useful to do this kind of treatment. and then you have to deploy this to a multicentric trial. you have to really prove first that it's useful before offering this treatment up for everybody.bg: and safe, of course. jb: of course.bg: jocelyne, thank you for coming to ted and sharing this. bg: thank you. <title = "10 ways to have a better conversation">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'communication', 'interview', 'language', 'personal growth']">
<occupation = "Writer and radio host">
all right, i want to see a show of hands: how many of you have unfriended someone on facebook because they said something offensive about politics or religion, childcare, food? and how many of you know at least one person that you avoid because you just don't want to talk to them? you know, it used to be that in order to have a polite conversation, we just had to follow the advice of henry higgins in "my fair lady": stick to the weather and your health. but these days, with climate change and anti-vaxxing, those subjects — are not safe either. so this world that we live in, this world in which every conversation has the potential to devolve into an argument, where our politicians can't speak to one another and where even the most trivial of issues have someone fighting both passionately for it and against it, it's not normal. pew research did a study of 10,000 american adults, and they found that at this moment, we are more polarized, we are more divided, than we ever have been in history. we're less likely to compromise, which means we're not listening to each other. and we make decisions about where to live, who to marry and even who our friends are going to be, based on what we already believe. again, that means we're not listening to each other. a conversation requires a balance between talking and listening, and somewhere along the way, we lost that balance.now, part of that is due to technology. the smartphones that you all either have in your hands or close enough that you could grab them really quickly. according to pew research, about a third of american teenagers send more than a hundred texts a day. and many of them, almost most of them, are more likely to text their friends than they are to talk to them face to face. there's this great piece in the atlantic. it was written by a high school teacher named paul barnwell. and he gave his kids a communication project. he wanted to teach them how to speak on a specific subject without using notes. and he said this: "i came to realize..." "i came to realize that conversational competence might be the single most overlooked skill we fail to teach. kids spend hours each day engaging with ideas and each other through screens, but rarely do they have an opportunity to hone their interpersonal communications skills. it might sound like a funny question, but we have to ask ourselves: is there any 21st-century skill more important than being able to sustain coherent, confident conversation?"now, i make my living talking to people: nobel prize winners, truck drivers, billionaires, kindergarten teachers, heads of state, plumbers. i talk to people that i like. i talk to people that i don't like. i talk to some people that i disagree with deeply on a personal level. but i still have a great conversation with them. so i'd like to spend the next 10 minutes or so teaching you how to talk and how to listen.many of you have already heard a lot of advice on this, things like look the person in the eye, think of interesting topics to discuss in advance, look, nod and smile to show that you're paying attention, repeat back what you just heard or summarize it. so i want you to forget all of that. it is crap. there is no reason to learn how to show you're paying attention if you are in fact paying attention. now, i actually use the exact same skills as a professional interviewer that i do in regular life. so, i'm going to teach you how to interview people, and that's actually going to help you learn how to be better conversationalists. learn to have a conversation without wasting your time, without getting bored, and, please god, without offending anybody.we've all had really great conversations. we've had them before. we know what it's like. the kind of conversation where you walk away feeling engaged and inspired, or where you feel like you've made a real connection or you've been perfectly understood. there is no reason why most of your interactions can't be like that.so i have 10 basic rules. i'm going to walk you through all of them, but honestly, if you just choose one of them and master it, you'll already enjoy better conversations.number one: don't multitask. and i don't mean just set down your cell phone or your tablet or your car keys or whatever is in your hand. i mean, be present. be in that moment. don't think about your argument you had with your boss. don't think about what you're going to have for dinner. if you want to get out of the conversation, get out of the conversation, but don't be half in it and half out of it.number two: don't pontificate. if you want to state your opinion without any opportunity for response or argument or pushback or growth, write a blog. now, there's a really good reason why i don't allow pundits on my show: because they're really boring. if they're conservative, they're going to hate obama and food stamps and abortion. if they're liberal, they're going to hate big banks and oil corporations and dick cheney. totally predictable. and you don't want to be like that. you need to enter every conversation assuming that you have something to learn. the famed therapist m. scott peck said that true listening requires a setting aside of oneself. and sometimes that means setting aside your personal opinion. he said that sensing this acceptance, the speaker will become less and less vulnerable and more and more likely to open up the inner recesses of his or her mind to the listener. again, assume that you have something to learn.bill nye: "everyone you will ever meet knows something that you don't." i put it this way: everybody is an expert in something.number three: use open-ended questions. in this case, take a cue from journalists. start your questions with who, what, when, where, why or how. if you put in a complicated question, you're going to get a simple answer out. if i ask you, "were you terrified?" you're going to respond to the most powerful word in that sentence, which is "terrified," and the answer is "yes, i was" or "no, i wasn't." "were you angry?" "yes, i was very angry." let them describe it. they're the ones that know. try asking them things like, "what was that like?" "how did that feel?" because then they might have to stop for a moment and think about it, and you're going to get a much more interesting response.number four: go with the flow. that means thoughts will come into your mind and you need to let them go out of your mind. we've heard interviews often in which a guest is talking for several minutes and then the host comes back in and asks a question which seems like it comes out of nowhere, or it's already been answered. that means the host probably stopped listening two minutes ago because he thought of this really clever question, and he was just bound and determined to say that. and we do the exact same thing. we're sitting there having a conversation with someone, and then we remember that time that we met hugh jackman in a coffee shop. and we stop listening. stories and ideas are going to come to you. you need to let them come and let them go.number five: if you don't know, say that you don't know. now, people on the radio, especially on npr, are much more aware that they're going on the record, and so they're more careful about what they claim to be an expert in and what they claim to know for sure. do that. err on the side of caution. talk should not be cheap.number six: don't equate your experience with theirs. if they're talking about having lost a family member, don't start talking about the time you lost a family member. if they're talking about the trouble they're having at work, don't tell them about how much you hate your job. it's not the same. it is never the same. all experiences are individual. and, more importantly, it is not about you. you don't need to take that moment to prove how amazing you are or how much you've suffered. somebody asked stephen hawking once what his iq was, and he said, "i have no idea. people who brag about their iqs are losers." conversations are not a promotional opportunity.number seven: try not to repeat yourself. it's condescending, and it's really boring, and we tend to do it a lot. especially in work conversations or in conversations with our kids, we have a point to make, so we just keep rephrasing it over and over. don't do that.number eight: stay out of the weeds. frankly, people don't care about the years, the names, the dates, all those details that you're struggling to come up with in your mind. they don't care. what they care about is you. they care about what you're like, what you have in common. so forget the details. leave them out.number nine: this is not the last one, but it is the most important one. listen. i cannot tell you how many really important people have said that listening is perhaps the most, the number one most important skill that you could develop. buddha said, and i'm paraphrasing, "if your mouth is open, you're not learning." and calvin coolidge said, "no man ever listened his way out of a job." why do we not listen to each other? number one, we'd rather talk. when i'm talking, i'm in control. i don't have to hear anything i'm not interested in. i'm the center of attention. i can bolster my own identity. but there's another reason: we get distracted. the average person talks at about 225 word per minute, but we can listen at up to 500 words per minute. so our minds are filling in those other 275 words. and look, i know, it takes effort and energy to actually pay attention to someone, but if you can't do that, you're not in a conversation. you're just two people shouting out barely related sentences in the same place. you have to listen to one another. stephen covey said it very beautifully. he said, "most of us don't listen with the intent to understand. we listen with the intent to reply."one more rule, number 10, and it's this one: be brief.[a good conversation is like a miniskirt; short enough to retain interest, but long enough to cover the subject. — my sister]  all of this boils down to the same basic concept, and it is this one: be interested in other people.you know, i grew up with a very famous grandfather, and there was kind of a ritual in my home. people would come over to talk to my grandparents, and after they would leave, my mother would come over to us, and she'd say, "do you know who that was? she was the runner-up to miss america. he was the mayor of sacramento. she won a pulitzer prize. he's a russian ballet dancer." and i kind of grew up assuming everyone has some hidden, amazing thing about them. and honestly, i think it's what makes me a better host. i keep my mouth shut as often as i possibly can, i keep my mind open, and i'm always prepared to be amazed, and i'm never disappointed.you do the same thing. go out, talk to people, listen to people, and, most importantly, be prepared to be amazed.thanks. <title = "My year of saying yes to everything">
<tags = "['children', 'creativity', 'culture', 'decision-making', 'family', 'identity', 'motivation', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'television', 'work', 'work-life balance', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Writer and producer">
so a while ago, i tried an experiment. for one year, i would say yes to all the things that scared me. anything that made me nervous, took me out of my comfort zone, i forced myself to say yes to. did i want to speak in public? no, but yes. did i want to be on live tv? no, but yes. did i want to try acting? no, no, no, but yes, yes, yes.and a crazy thing happened: the very act of doing the thing that scared me undid the fear, made it not scary. my fear of public speaking, my social anxiety, poof, gone. it's amazing, the power of one word. "yes" changed my life. "yes" changed me. but there was one particular yes that affected my life in the most profound way, in a way i never imagined, and it started with a question from my toddler.i have these three amazing daughters, harper, beckett and emerson, and emerson is a toddler who inexplicably refers to everyone as "honey." as though she's a southern waitress. "honey, i'm gonna need some milk for my sippy cup." the southern waitress asked me to play with her one evening when i was on my way somewhere, and i said, "yes." and that yes was the beginning of a new way of life for my family. i made a vow that from now on, every time one of my children asks me to play, no matter what i'm doing or where i'm going, i say yes, every single time. almost. i'm not perfect at it, but i try hard to practice it. and it's had a magical effect on me, on my children, on our family. but it's also had a stunning side effect, and it wasn't until recently that i fully understood it, that i understood that saying yes to playing with my children likely saved my career.see, i have what most people would call a dream job. i'm a writer. i imagine. i make stuff up for a living. dream job. no. i'm a titan. dream job. i create television. i executive produce television. i make television, a great deal of television. in one way or another, this tv season, i'm responsible for bringing about 70 hours of programming to the world. four television programs, 70 hours of tv — three shows in production at a time, sometimes four. each show creates hundreds of jobs that didn't exist before. the budget for one episode of network television can be anywhere from three to six million dollars. let's just say five. a new episode made every nine days times four shows, so every nine days that's 20 million dollars worth of television, four television programs, 70 hours of tv, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four, 16 episodes going on at all times: 24 episodes of "grey's," 21 episodes of "scandal," 15 episodes of "how to get away with murder," 10 episodes of "the catch," that's 70 hours of tv, that's 350 million dollars for a season. in america, my television shows are back to back to back on thursday night. around the world, my shows air in 256 territories in 67 languages for an audience of 30 million people. my brain is global, and 45 hours of that 70 hours of tv are shows i personally created and not just produced, so on top of everything else, i need to find time, real quiet, creative time, to gather my fans around the campfire and tell my stories. four television programs, 70 hours of tv, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four, 350 million dollars, campfires burning all over the world. you know who else is doing that? nobody, so like i said, i'm a titan. dream job. now, i don't tell you this to impress you. i tell you this because i know what you think of when you hear the word "writer." i tell you this so that all of you out there who work so hard, whether you run a company or a country or a classroom or a store or a home, take me seriously when i talk about working, so you'll get that i don't peck at a computer and imagine all day, so you'll hear me when i say that i understand that a dream job is not about dreaming. it's all job, all work, all reality, all blood, all sweat, no tears. i work a lot, very hard, and i love it.when i'm hard at work, when i'm deep in it, there is no other feeling. for me, my work is at all times building a nation out of thin air. it is manning the troops. it is painting a canvas. it is hitting every high note. it is running a marathon. it is being beyoncé. and it is all of those things at the same time. i love working. it is creative and mechanical and exhausting and exhilarating and hilarious and disturbing and clinical and maternal and cruel and judicious, and what makes it all so good is the hum. there is some kind of shift inside me when the work gets good. a hum begins in my brain, and it grows and it grows and that hum sounds like the open road, and i could drive it forever. and a lot of people, when i try to explain the hum, they assume that i'm talking about the writing, that my writing brings me joy. and don't get me wrong, it does. but the hum — it wasn't until i started making television that i started working, working and making and building and creating and collaborating, that i discovered this thing, this buzz, this rush, this hum. the hum is more than writing. the hum is action and activity. the hum is a drug. the hum is music. the hum is light and air. the hum is god's whisper right in my ear. and when you have a hum like that, you can't help but strive for greatness. that feeling, you can't help but strive for greatness at any cost. that's called the hum. or, maybe it's called being a workaholic. maybe it's called genius. maybe it's called ego. maybe it's just fear of failure. i don't know. i just know that i'm not built for failure, and i just know that i love the hum. i just know that i want to tell you i'm a titan, and i know that i don't want to question it.but here's the thing: the more successful i become, the more shows, the more episodes, the more barriers broken, the more work there is to do, the more balls in the air, the more eyes on me, the more history stares, the more expectations there are. the more i work to be successful, the more i need to work. and what did i say about work? i love working, right? the nation i'm building, the marathon i'm running, the troops, the canvas, the high note, the hum, the hum, the hum. i like that hum. i love that hum. i need that hum. i am that hum. am i nothing but that hum?and then the hum stopped. overworked, overused, overdone, burned out. the hum stopped.now, my three daughters are used to the truth that their mother is a single working titan. harper tells people, "my mom won't be there, but you can text my nanny." and emerson says, "honey, i'm wanting to go to shondaland." they're children of a titan. they're baby titans. they were 12, 3, and 1 when the hum stopped. the hum of the engine died. i stopped loving work. i couldn't restart the engine. the hum would not come back. my hum was broken. i was doing the same things i always did, all the same titan work, 15-hour days, working straight through the weekends, no regrets, never surrender, a titan never sleeps, a titan never quits, full hearts, clear eyes, yada, whatever. but there was no hum. inside me was silence. four television programs, 70 hours of tv, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four. four television programs, 70 hours of tv, three shows in production at a time ... i was the perfect titan. i was a titan you could take home to your mother. all the colors were the same, and i was no longer having any fun. and it was my life. it was all i did. i was the hum, and the hum was me. so what do you do when the thing you do, the work you love, starts to taste like dust?now, i know somebody's out there thinking, "cry me a river, stupid writer titan lady." but you know, you do, if you make, if you work, if you love what you do, being a teacher, being a banker, being a mother, being a painter, being bill gates, if you simply love another person and that gives you the hum, if you know the hum, if you know what the hum feels like, if you have been to the hum, when the hum stops, who are you? what are you? what am i? am i still a titan? if the song of my heart ceases to play, can i survive in the silence?and then my southern waitress toddler asks me a question. i'm on my way out the door, i'm late, and she says, "momma, wanna play?"and i'm just about to say no, when i realize two things. one, i'm supposed to say yes to everything, and two, my southern waitress didn't call me "honey." she's not calling everyone "honey" anymore. when did that happen? i'm missing it, being a titan and mourning my hum, and here she is changing right before my eyes. and so she says, "momma, wanna play?" and i say, "yes." there's nothing special about it. we play, and we're joined by her sisters, and there's a lot of laughing, and i give a dramatic reading from the book everybody poops. nothing out of the ordinary. and yet, it is extraordinary, because in my pain and my panic, in the homelessness of my humlessness, i have nothing to do but pay attention. i focus. i am still. the nation i'm building, the marathon i'm running, the troops, the canvas, the high note does not exist. all that exists are sticky fingers and gooey kisses and tiny voices and crayons and that song about letting go of whatever it is that frozen girl needs to let go of. it's all peace and simplicity. the air is so rare in this place for me that i can barely breathe. i can barely believe i'm breathing. play is the opposite of work. and i am happy. something in me loosens. a door in my brain swings open, and a rush of energy comes. and it's not instantaneous, but it happens, it does happen. i feel it. a hum creeps back. not at full volume, barely there, it's quiet, and i have to stay very still to hear it, but it is there. not the hum, but a hum.and now i feel like i know a very magical secret. well, let's not get carried away. it's just love. that's all it is. no magic. no secret. it's just love. it's just something we forgot. the hum, the work hum, the hum of the titan, that's just a replacement. if i have to ask you who i am, if i have to tell you who i am, if i describe myself in terms of shows and hours of television and how globally badass my brain is, i have forgotten what the real hum is. the hum is not power and the hum is not work-specific. the hum is joy-specific. the real hum is love-specific. the hum is the electricity that comes from being excited by life. the real hum is confidence and peace. the real hum ignores the stare of history, and the balls in the air, and the expectation, and the pressure. the real hum is singular and original. the real hum is god's whisper in my ear, but maybe god was whispering the wrong words, because which one of the gods was telling me i was the titan?it's just love. we could all use a little more love, a lot more love. any time my child asks me to play, i will say yes. i make it a firm rule for one reason, to give myself permission, to free me from all of my workaholic guilt. it's a law, so i don't have a choice, and i don't have a choice, not if i want to feel the hum.i wish it were that easy, but i'm not good at playing. i don't like it. i'm not interested in doing it the way i'm interested in doing work. the truth is incredibly humbling and humiliating to face. i don't like playing. i work all the time because i like working. i like working more than i like being at home. facing that fact is incredibly difficult to handle, because what kind of person likes working more than being at home?well, me. i mean, let's be honest, i call myself a titan. i've got issues. and one of those issues isn't that i am too relaxed. we run around the yard, up and back and up and back. we have 30-second dance parties. we sing show tunes. we play with balls. i blow bubbles and they pop them. and i feel stiff and delirious and confused most of the time. i itch for my cell phone always. but it is ok. my tiny humans show me how to live and the hum of the universe fills me up. i play and i play until i begin to wonder why we ever stop playing in the first place.you can do it too, say yes every time your child asks you to play. are you thinking that maybe i'm an idiot in diamond shoes? you're right, but you can still do this. you have time. you know why? because you're not rihanna and you're not a muppet. your child does not think you're that interesting. you only need 15 minutes. my two- and four-year-old only ever want to play with me for about 15 minutes or so before they think to themselves they want to do something else. it's an amazing 15 minutes, but it's 15 minutes. if i'm not a ladybug or a piece of candy, i'm invisible after 15 minutes. and my 13-year-old, if i can get a 13-year-old to talk to me for 15 minutes i'm parent of the year. 15 minutes is all you need. i can totally pull off 15 minutes of uninterrupted time on my worst day. uninterrupted is the key. no cell phone, no laundry, no anything. you have a busy life. you have to get dinner on the table. you have to force them to bathe. but you can do 15 minutes. my kids are my happy place, they're my world, but it doesn't have to be your kids, the fuel that feeds your hum, the place where life feels more good than not good. it's not about playing with your kids, it's about joy. it's about playing in general. give yourself the 15 minutes. find what makes you feel good. just figure it out and play in that arena.i'm not perfect at it. in fact, i fail as often as i succeed, seeing friends, reading books, staring into space. "wanna play?" starts to become shorthand for indulging myself in ways i'd given up on right around the time i got my first tv show, right around the time i became a titan-in-training, right around the time i started competing with myself for ways unknown. 15 minutes? what could be wrong with giving myself my full attention for 15 minutes? turns out, nothing. the very act of not working has made it possible for the hum to return, as if the hum's engine could only refuel while i was away. work doesn't work without play.it takes a little time, but after a few months, one day the floodgates open and there's a rush, and i find myself standing in my office filled with an unfamiliar melody, full on groove inside me, and around me, and it sends me spinning with ideas, and the humming road is open, and i can drive it and drive it, and i love working again. but now, i like that hum, but i don't love that hum. i don't need that hum. i am not that hum. that hum is not me, not anymore. i am bubbles and sticky fingers and dinners with friends. i am that hum. life's hum. love's hum. work's hum is still a piece of me, it is just no longer all of me, and i am so grateful. and i don't give a crap about being a titan, because i have never once seen a titan play red rover, red rover.i said yes to less work and more play, and somehow i still run my world. my brain is still global. my campfires still burn. the more i play, the happier i am, and the happier my kids are. the more i play, the more i feel like a good mother. the more i play, the freer my mind becomes. the more i play, the better i work. the more i play, the more i feel the hum, the nation i'm building, the marathon i'm running, the troops, the canvas, the high note, the hum, the hum, the other hum, the real hum, life's hum. the more i feel that hum, the more this strange, quivering, uncocooned, awkward, brand new, alive non-titan feels like me. the more i feel that hum, the more i know who i am. i'm a writer, i make stuff up, i imagine. that part of the job, that's living the dream. that's the dream of the job. because a dream job should be a little bit dreamy.i said yes to less work and more play. titans need not apply.wanna play?thank you. <title = "What the discovery of gravitational waves means">
<tags = "['astronomy', 'cosmos', 'curiosity', 'exploration', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'space', 'technology', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Theoretical physicist">
1.3 billion years ago, in a distant, distant galaxy, two black holes locked into a spiral, falling inexorably towards each other and collided, converting three suns' worth of stuff into pure energy in a tenth of a second. for that brief moment in time, the glow was brighter than all the stars in all the galaxies in all of the known universe. it was a very big bang.but they didn't release their energy in light. i mean, you know, they're black holes. all that energy was pumped into the fabric of space and time itself, making the universe explode in gravitational waves.let me give you a sense of the timescale at work here. 1.3 billion years ago, earth had just managed to evolve multicellular life. since then, earth has made and evolved corals, fish, plants, dinosaurs, people and even — god save us — the internet. and about 25 years ago, a particularly audacious set of people — rai weiss at mit, kip thorne and ronald drever at caltech — decided that it would be really neat to build a giant laser detector with which to search for the gravitational waves from things like colliding black holes.now, most people thought they were nuts. but enough people realized that they were brilliant nuts that the us national science foundation decided to fund their crazy idea. so after decades of development, construction and imagination and a breathtaking amount of hard work, they built their detector, called ligo: the laser interferometer gravitational-wave observatory.for the last several years, ligo's been undergoing a huge expansion in its accuracy, a tremendous improvement in its detection ability. it's now called advanced ligo as a result.in early september of 2015, ligo turned on for a final test run while they sorted out a few lingering details. and on september 14 of 2015, just days after the detector had gone live, the gravitational waves from those colliding black holes passed through the earth. and they passed through you and me. and they passed through the detector.(audio) scott hughes: there's two moments in my life more emotionally intense than that. one is the birth of my daughter. the other is when i had to say goodbye to my father when he was terminally ill. you know, it was the payoff of my career, basically. everything i'd been working on — it's no longer science fiction! (laughs)allan adams: so that's my very good friend and collaborator, scott hughes, a theoretical physicist at mit, who has been studying gravitational waves from black holes and the signals that they could impart on observatories like ligo, for the past 23 years.so let me take a moment to tell you what i mean by a gravitational wave. a gravitational wave is a ripple in the shape of space and time. as the wave passes by, it stretches space and everything in it in one direction, and compresses it in the other. this has led to countless instructors of general relativity doing a really silly dance to demonstrate in their classes on general relativity. "it stretches and expands, it stretches and expands."so the trouble with gravitational waves is that they're very weak; they're preposterously weak. for example, the waves that hit us on september 14 — and yes, every single one of you stretched and compressed under the action of that wave — when the waves hit, they stretched the average person by one part in 10 to the 21. that's a decimal place, 20 zeroes, and a one. that's why everyone thought the ligo people were nuts. even with a laser detector five kilometers long — and that's already crazy — they would have to measure the length of those detectors to less than one thousandth of the radius of the nucleus of an atom. and that's preposterous.so towards the end of his classic text on gravity, ligo co-founder kip thorne described the hunt for gravitational waves as follows: he said, "the technical difficulties to be surmounted in constructing such detectors are enormous. but physicists are ingenious, and with the support of a broad lay public, all obstacles will surely be overcome." thorne published that in 1973, 42 years before he succeeded.now, coming back to ligo, scott likes to say that ligo acts like an ear more than it does like an eye. i want to explain what that means. visible light has a wavelength, a size, that's much smaller than the things around you, the features on people's faces, the size of your cell phone. and that's really useful, because it lets you make an image or a map of the things around you, by looking at the light coming from different spots in the scene about you.sound is different. audible sound has a wavelength that can be up to 50 feet long. and that makes it really difficult — in fact, in practical purposes, impossible — to make an image of something you really care about. your child's face. instead, we use sound to listen for features like pitch and tone and rhythm and volume to infer a story behind the sounds. that's alice talking. that's bob interrupting. silly bob.so, the same is true of gravitational waves. we can't use them to make simple images of things out in the universe. but by listening to changes in the amplitude and frequency of those waves, we can hear the story that those waves are telling. and at least for ligo, the frequencies that it can hear are in the audio band. so if we convert the wave patterns into pressure waves and air, into sound, we can literally hear the universe speaking to us. for example, listening to gravity, just in this way, can tell us a lot about the collision of two black holes, something my colleague scott has spent an awful lot of time thinking about.(audio) sh: if the two black holes are non-spinning, you get a very simple chirp: whoop! if the two bodies are spinning very rapidly, i have that same chirp, but with a modulation on top of it, so it kind of goes: whir, whir, whir! it's sort of the vocabulary of spin imprinted on this waveform.aa: so on september 14, 2015, a date that's definitely going to live in my memory, ligo heard this:[whirring sound]so if you know how to listen, that is the sound of —(audio) sh: ... two black holes, each of about 30 solar masses, that were whirling around at a rate comparable to what goes on in your blender.aa: it's worth pausing here to think about what that means. two black holes, the densest thing in the universe, one with a mass of 29 suns and one with a mass of 36 suns, whirling around each other 100 times per second before they collide. just imagine the power of that. it's fantastic. and we know it because we heard it.that's the lasting importance of ligo. it's an entirely new way to observe the universe that we've never had before. it's a way that lets us hear the universe and hear the invisible.and there's a lot out there that we can't see — in practice or even in principle. so supernova, for example: i would love to know why very massive stars explode in supernovae. they're very useful; we've learned a lot about the universe from them. the problem is, all the interesting physics happens in the core, and the core is hidden behind thousands of kilometers of iron and carbon and silicon. we'll never see through it, it's opaque to light. gravitational waves go through iron as if it were glass — totally transparent. the big bang: i would love to be able to explore the first few moments of the universe, but we'll never see them, because the big bang itself is obscured by its own afterglow. with gravitational waves, we should be able to see all the way back to the beginning. perhaps most importantly, i'm positive that there are things out there that we've never seen that we may never be able to see and that we haven't even imagined — things that we'll only discover by listening.and in fact, even in that very first event, ligo found things that we didn't expect. here's my colleague and one of the key members of the ligo collaboration, matt evans, my colleague at mit, addressing exactly that:(audio) matt evans: the kinds of stars which produce the black holes that we observed here are the dinosaurs of the universe. they're these massive things that are old, from prehistoric times, and the black holes are kind of like the dinosaur bones with which we do this archeology. so it lets us really get a whole nother angle on what's out there in the universe and how the stars came to be, and in the end, of course, how we came to be out of this whole mess.aa: our challenge now is to be as audacious as possible. thanks to ligo, we know how to build exquisite detectors that can listen to the universe, to the rustle and the chirp of the cosmos. our job is to dream up and build new observatories — a whole new generation of observatories — on the ground, in space. i mean, what could be more glorious than listening to the big bang itself? our job now is to dream big. dream with us.thank you. <title = "Meet the dazzling flying machines of the future">
<tags = "['beauty', 'creativity', 'demo', 'design', 'drones', 'flight', 'future', 'invention', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Autonomous systems pioneer">
what started as a platform for hobbyists is poised to become a multibillion-dollar industry. inspection, environmental monitoring, photography and film and journalism: these are some of the potential applications for commercial drones, and their enablers are the capabilities being developed at research facilities around the world.for example, before aerial package delivery entered our social consciousness, an autonomous fleet of flying machines built a six-meter-tall tower composed of 1,500 bricks in front of a live audience at the frac centre in france, and several years ago, they started to fly with ropes. by tethering flying machines, they can achieve high speeds and accelerations in very tight spaces. they can also autonomously build tensile structures. skills learned include how to carry loads, how to cope with disturbances, and in general, how to interact with the physical world.today we want to show you some new projects that we've been working on. their aim is to push the boundary of what can be achieved with autonomous flight.now, for a system to function autonomously, it must collectively know the location of its mobile objects in space. back at our lab at eth zurich, we often use external cameras to locate objects, which then allows us to focus our efforts on the rapid development of highly dynamic tasks. for the demos you will see today, however, we will use new localization technology developed by verity studios, a spin-off from our lab. there are no external cameras. each flying machine uses onboard sensors to determine its location in space and onboard computation to determine what its actions should be. the only external commands are high-level ones such as "take off" and "land."this is a so-called tail-sitter. it's an aircraft that tries to have its cake and eat it. like other fixed-wing aircraft, it is efficient in forward flight, much more so than helicopters and variations thereof. unlike most other fixed-wing aircraft, however, it is capable of hovering, which has huge advantages for takeoff, landing and general versatility. there is no free lunch, unfortunately. one of the limitations with tail-sitters is that they're susceptible to disturbances such as wind gusts. we're developing new control architectures and algorithms that address this limitation. the idea is for the aircraft to recover no matter what state it finds itself in, and through practice, improve its performance over time. ok.when doing research, we often ask ourselves fundamental abstract questions that try to get at the heart of a matter. for example, one such question would be, what is the minimum number of moving parts needed for controlled flight? now, there are practical reasons why you may want to know the answer to such a question. helicopters, for example, are affectionately known as machines with a thousand moving parts all conspiring to do you bodily harm. it turns out that decades ago, skilled pilots were able to fly remote-controlled aircraft that had only two moving parts: a propeller and a tail rudder. we recently discovered that it could be done with just one.this is the monospinner, the world's mechanically simplest controllable flying machine, invented just a few months ago. it has only one moving part, a propeller. it has no flaps, no hinges, no ailerons, no other actuators, no other control surfaces, just a simple propeller. even though it's mechanically simple, there's a lot going on in its little electronic brain to allow it to fly in a stable fashion and to move anywhere it wants in space. even so, it doesn't yet have the sophisticated algorithms of the tail-sitter, which means that in order to get it to fly, i have to throw it just right. and because the probability of me throwing it just right is very low, given everybody watching me, what we're going to do instead is show you a video that we shot last night. if the monospinner is an exercise in frugality, this machine here, the omnicopter, with its eight propellers, is an exercise in excess. what can you do with all this surplus? the thing to notice is that it is highly symmetric. as a result, it is ambivalent to orientation. this gives it an extraordinary capability. it can move anywhere it wants in space irrespective of where it is facing and even of how it is rotating. it has its own complexities, mainly having to do with the interacting flows from its eight propellers. some of this can be modeled, while the rest can be learned on the fly. let's take a look. if flying machines are going to enter part of our daily lives, they will need to become extremely safe and reliable. this machine over here is actually two separate two-propeller flying machines. this one wants to spin clockwise. this other one wants to spin counterclockwise. when you put them together, they behave like one high-performance quadrocopter. if anything goes wrong, however — a motor fails, a propeller fails, electronics, even a battery pack — the machine can still fly, albeit in a degraded fashion. we're going to demonstrate this to you now by disabling one of its halves. this last demonstration is an exploration of synthetic swarms. the large number of autonomous, coordinated entities offers a new palette for aesthetic expression. we've taken commercially available micro quadcopters, each weighing less than a slice of bread, by the way, and outfitted them with our localization technology and custom algorithms. because each unit knows where it is in space and is self-controlled, there is really no limit to their number.  hopefully, these demonstrations will motivate you to dream up new revolutionary roles for flying machines. that ultrasafe one over there for example has aspirations to become a flying lampshade on broadway. the reality is that it is difficult to predict the impact of nascent technology. and for folks like us, the real reward is the journey and the act of creation. it's a continual reminder of how wonderful and magical the universe we live in is, that it allows creative, clever creatures to sculpt it in such spectacular ways. the fact that this technology has such huge commercial and economic potential is just icing on the cake.thank you. <title = "The case for optimism on climate change">
<tags = "['alternative energy', 'climate change', 'energy', 'science', 'weather']">
<occupation = "Climate advocate">
i was excited to be a part of the "dream" theme, and then i found out i'm leading off the "nightmare?" section of it. and certainly there are things about the climate crisis that qualify. and i have some bad news, but i have a lot more good news. i'm going to propose three questions and the answer to the first one necessarily involves a little bad news. but — hang on, because the answers to the second and third questions really are very positive.so the first question is, "do we really have to change?" and of course, the apollo mission, among other things changed the environmental movement, really launched the modern environmental movement. 18 months after this earthrise picture was first seen on earth, the first earth day was organized. and we learned a lot about ourselves looking back at our planet from space. and one of the things that we learned confirmed what the scientists have long told us. one of the most essential facts about the climate crisis has to do with the sky. as this picture illustrates, the sky is not the vast and limitless expanse that appears when we look up from the ground. it is a very thin shell of atmosphere surrounding the planet. that right now is the open sewer for our industrial civilization as it's currently organized. we are spewing 110 million tons of heat-trapping global warming pollution into it every 24 hours, free of charge, go ahead.and there are many sources of the greenhouse gases, i'm certainly not going to go through them all. i'm going to focus on the main one, but agriculture is involved, diet is involved, population is involved. management of forests, transportation, the oceans, the melting of the permafrost. but i'm going to focus on the heart of the problem, which is the fact that we still rely on dirty, carbon-based fuels for 85 percent of all the energy that our world burns every year. and you can see from this image that after world war ii, the emission rates started really accelerating. and the accumulated amount of man-made, global warming pollution that is up in the atmosphere now traps as much extra heat energy as would be released by 400,000 hiroshima-class atomic bombs exploding every 24 hours, 365 days a year. fact-checked over and over again, conservative, it's the truth. now it's a big planet, but —(explosion sound)that is a lot of energy, particularly when you multiply it 400,000 times per day. and all that extra heat energy is heating up the atmosphere, the whole earth system.let's look at the atmosphere. this is a depiction of what we used to think of as the normal distribution of temperatures. the white represents normal temperature days; 1951-1980 are arbitrarily chosen. the blue are cooler than average days, the red are warmer than average days. but the entire curve has moved to the right in the 1980s. and you'll see in the lower right-hand corner the appearance of statistically significant numbers of extremely hot days. in the 90s, the curve shifted further. and in the last 10 years, you see the extremely hot days are now more numerous than the cooler than average days. in fact, they are 150 times more common on the surface of the earth than they were just 30 years ago.so we're having record-breaking temperatures. fourteen of the 15 of the hottest years ever measured with instruments have been in this young century. the hottest of all was last year. last month was the 371st month in a row warmer than the 20th-century average. and for the first time, not only the warmest january, but for the first time, it was more than two degrees fahrenheit warmer than the average. these higher temperatures are having an effect on animals, plants, people, ecosystems.but on a global basis, 93 percent of all the extra heat energy is trapped in the oceans. and the scientists can measure the heat buildup much more precisely now at all depths: deep, mid-ocean, the first few hundred meters. and this, too, is accelerating. it goes back more than a century. and more than half of the increase has been in the last 19 years. this has consequences.the first order of consequence: the ocean-based storms get stronger. super typhoon haiyan went over areas of the pacific five and a half degrees fahrenheit warmer than normal before it slammed into tacloban, as the most destructive storm ever to make landfall. pope francis, who has made such a difference to this whole issue, visited tacloban right after that. superstorm sandy went over areas of the atlantic nine degrees warmer than normal before slamming into new york and new jersey. the second order of consequences are affecting all of us right now. the warmer oceans are evaporating much more water vapor into the skies. average humidity worldwide has gone up four percent. and it creates these atmospheric rivers. the brazilian scientists call them "flying rivers." and they funnel all of that extra water vapor over the land where storm conditions trigger these massive record-breaking downpours. this is from montana. take a look at this storm last august. as it moves over tucson, arizona. it literally splashes off the city. these downpours are really unusual.last july in houston, texas, it rained for two days, 162 billion gallons. that represents more than two days of the full flow of niagara falls in the middle of the city, which was, of course, paralyzed. these record downpours are creating historic floods and mudslides.this one is from chile last year. and you'll see that warehouse going by. there are oil tankers cars going by. this is from spain last september, you could call this the running of the cars and trucks, i guess. every night on the tv news now is like a nature hike through the book of revelation. i mean, really.the insurance industry has certainly noticed, the losses have been mounting up. they're not under any illusions about what's happening. and the causality requires a moment of discussion. we're used to thinking of linear cause and linear effect — one cause, one effect. this is systemic causation. as the great kevin trenberth says, "all storms are different now. there's so much extra energy in the atmosphere, there's so much extra water vapor. every storm is different now." so, the same extra heat pulls the soil moisture out of the ground and causes these deeper, longer, more pervasive droughts and many of them are underway right now.it dries out the vegetation and causes more fires in the western part of north america. there's certainly been evidence of that, a lot of them.more lightning, as the heat energy builds up, there's a considerable amount of additional lightning also.these climate-related disasters also have geopolitical consequences and create instability. the climate-related historic drought that started in syria in 2006 destroyed 60 percent of the farms in syria, killed 80 percent of the livestock, and drove 1.5 million climate refugees into the cities of syria, where they collided with another 1.5 million refugees from the iraq war. and along with other factors, that opened the gates of hell that people are trying to close now. the us defense department has long warned of consequences from the climate crisis, including refugees, food and water shortages and pandemic disease.right now we're seeing microbial diseases from the tropics spread to the higher latitudes; the transportation revolution has had a lot to do with this. but the changing conditions change the latitudes and the areas where these microbial diseases can become endemic and change the range of the vectors, like mosquitoes and ticks that carry them. the zika epidemic now — we're better positioned in north america because it's still a little too cool and we have a better public health system. but when women in some regions of south and central america are advised not to get pregnant for two years — that's something new, that ought to get our attention. the lancet, one of the two greatest medical journals in the world, last summer labeled this a medical emergency now. and there are many factors because of it.this is also connected to the extinction crisis. we're in danger of losing 50 percent of all the living species on earth by the end of this century. and already, land-based plants and animals are now moving towards the poles at an average rate of 15 feet per day.speaking of the north pole, last december 29, the same storm that caused historic flooding in the american midwest, raised temperatures at the north pole 50 degrees fahrenheit warmer than normal, causing the thawing of the north pole in the middle of the long, dark, winter, polar night. and when the land-based ice of the arctic melts, it raises sea level.paul nicklen's beautiful photograph from svalbard illustrates this. it's more dangerous coming off greenland and particularly, antarctica. the 10 largest risk cities for sea-level rise by population are mostly in south and southeast asia. when you measure it by assets at risk, number one is miami: three and a half trillion dollars at risk. number three: new york and newark. i was in miami last fall during the supermoon, one of the highest high-tide days. and there were fish from the ocean swimming in some of the streets of miami beach and fort lauderdale and del rey. and this happens regularly during the highest-tide tides now. not with rain — they call it "sunny-day flooding." it comes up through the storm sewers. and the mayor of miami speaks for many when he says it is long past time this can be viewed through a partisan lens. this is a crisis that's getting worse day by day. we have to move beyond partisanship.and i want to take a moment to honor these house republicans — who had the courage last fall to step out and take a political risk, by telling the truth about the climate crisis.so the cost of the climate crisis is mounting up, there are many of these aspects i haven't even mentioned. it's an enormous burden. i'll mention just one more, because the world economic forum last month in davos, after their annual survey of 750 economists, said the climate crisis is now the number one risk to the global economy. so you get central bankers like mark carney, the head of the uk central bank, saying the vast majority of the carbon reserves are unburnable. subprime carbon. i'm not going to remind you what happened with subprime mortgages, but it's the same thing. if you look at all of the carbon fuels that were burned since the beginning of the industrial revolution, this is the quantity burned in the last 16 years. here are all the ones that are proven and left on the books, 28 trillion dollars. the international energy agency says only this amount can be burned. so the rest, 22 trillion dollars — unburnable. risk to the global economy. that's why divestment movement makes practical sense and is not just a moral imperative.so the answer to the first question, "must we change?" is yes, we have to change. second question, "can we change?" this is the exciting news! the best projections in the world 16 years ago were that by 2010, the world would be able to install 30 gigawatts of wind capacity. we beat that mark by 14 and a half times over. we see an exponential curve for wind installations now. we see the cost coming down dramatically. some countries — take germany, an industrial powerhouse with a climate not that different from vancouver's, by the way — one day last december, got 81 percent of all its energy from renewable resources, mainly solar and wind. a lot of countries are getting more than half on an average basis.more good news: energy storage, from batteries particularly, is now beginning to take off because the cost has been coming down very dramatically to solve the intermittency problem. with solar, the news is even more exciting! the best projections 14 years ago were that we would install one gigawatt per year by 2010. when 2010 came around, we beat that mark by 17 times over. last year, we beat it by 58 times over. this year, we're on track to beat it 68 times over.we're going to win this. we are going to prevail. the exponential curve on solar is even steeper and more dramatic. when i came to this stage 10 years ago, this is where it was. we have seen a revolutionary breakthrough in the emergence of these exponential curves. and the cost has come down 10 percent per year for 30 years. and it's continuing to come down.now, the business community has certainly noticed this, because it's crossing the grid parity point. cheaper solar penetration rates are beginning to rise. grid parity is understood as that line, that threshold, below which renewable electricity is cheaper than electricity from burning fossil fuels. that threshold is a little bit like the difference between 32 degrees fahrenheit and 33 degrees fahrenheit, or zero and one celsius. it's a difference of more than one degree, it's the difference between ice and water. and it's the difference between markets that are frozen up, and liquid flows of capital into new opportunities for investment. this is the biggest new business opportunity in the history of the world, and two-thirds of it is in the private sector. we are seeing an explosion of new investment. starting in 2010, investments globally in renewable electricity generation surpassed fossils. the gap has been growing ever since. the projections for the future are even more dramatic, even though fossil energy is now still subsidized at a rate 40 times larger than renewables. and by the way, if you add the projections for nuclear on here, particularly if you assume that the work many are doing to try to break through to safer and more acceptable, more affordable forms of nuclear, this could change even more dramatically.so is there any precedent for such a rapid adoption of a new technology? well, there are many, but let's look at cell phones. in 1980, at&t, then ma bell, commissioned mckinsey to do a global market survey of those clunky new mobile phones that appeared then. "how many can we sell by the year 2000?" they asked. mckinsey came back and said, "900,000." and sure enough, when the year 2000 arrived, they did sell 900,000 — in the first three days. and for the balance of the year, they sold 120 times more. and now there are more cell connections than there are people in the world.so, why were they not only wrong, but way wrong? i've asked that question myself, "why?" and i think the answer is in three parts. first, the cost came down much faster than anybody expected, even as the quality went up. and low-income countries, places that did not have a landline grid — they leap-frogged to the new technology. the big expansion has been in the developing counties. so what about the electricity grids in the developing world? well, not so hot. and in many areas, they don't exist. there are more people without any electricity at all in india than the entire population of the united states of america. so now we're getting this: solar panels on grass huts and new business models that make it affordable. muhammad yunus financed this one in bangladesh with micro-credit. this is a village market. bangladesh is now the fastest-deploying country in the world: two systems per minute on average, night and day. and we have all we need: enough energy from the sun comes to the earth every hour to supply the full world's energy needs for an entire year. it's actually a little bit less than an hour. so the answer to the second question, "can we change?" is clearly "yes." and it's an ever-firmer "yes."last question, "will we change?" paris really was a breakthrough, some of the provisions are binding and the regular reviews will matter a lot. but nations aren't waiting, they're going ahead. china has already announced that starting next year, they're adopting a nationwide cap and trade system. they will likely link up with the european union. the united states has already been changing. all of these coal plants were proposed in the next 10 years and canceled. all of these existing coal plants were retired. all of these coal plants have had their retirement announced. all of them — canceled. we are moving forward. last year — if you look at all of the investment in new electricity generation in the united states, almost three-quarters was from renewable energy, mostly wind and solar.we are solving this crisis. the only question is: how long will it take to get there? so, it matters that a lot of people are organizing to insist on this change. almost 400,000 people marched in new york city before the un special session on this. many thousands, tens of thousands, marched in cities around the world. and so, i am extremely optimistic. as i said before, we are going to win this.i'll finish with this story. when i was 13 years old, i heard that proposal by president kennedy to land a person on the moon and bring him back safely in 10 years. and i heard adults of that day and time say, "that's reckless, expensive, may well fail." but eight years and two months later, in the moment that neil armstrong set foot on the moon, there was great cheer that went up in nasa's mission control in houston. here's a little-known fact about that: the average age of the systems engineers, the controllers in the room that day, was 26, which means, among other things, their age, when they heard that challenge, was 18.we now have a moral challenge that is in the tradition of others that we have faced. one of the greatest poets of the last century in the us, wallace stevens, wrote a line that has stayed with me: "after the final 'no,' there comes a 'yes,' and on that 'yes', the future world depends." when the abolitionists started their movement, they met with no after no after no. and then came a yes. the women's suffrage and women's rights movement met endless no's, until finally, there was a yes. the civil rights movement, the movement against apartheid, and more recently, the movement for gay and lesbian rights here in the united states and elsewhere. after the final "no" comes a "yes."when any great moral challenge is ultimately resolved into a binary choice between what is right and what is wrong, the outcome is fore-ordained because of who we are as human beings. ninety-nine percent of us, that is where we are now and it is why we're going to win this. we have everything we need. some still doubt that we have the will to act, but i say the will to act is itself a renewable resource.thank you very much. chris anderson: you've got this incredible combination of skills. you've got this scientist mind that can understand the full range of issues, and the ability to turn it into the most vivid language. no one else can do that, that's why you led this thing. it was amazing to see it 10 years ago, it was amazing to see it now.al gore: well, you're nice to say that, chris. but honestly, i have a lot of really good friends in the scientific community who are incredibly patient and who will sit there and explain this stuff to me over and over and over again until i can get it into simple enough language that i can understand it. and that's the key to trying to communicate.ca: so, your talk. first part: terrifying, second part: incredibly hopeful. how do we know that all those graphs, all that progress, is enough to solve what you showed in the first part?ag: i think that the crossing — you know, i've only been in the business world for 15 years. but one of the things i've learned is that apparently it matters if a new product or service is more expensive than the incumbent, or cheaper than. turns out, it makes a difference if it's cheaper than. and when it crosses that line, then a lot of things really change. we are regularly surprised by these developments. the late rudi dornbusch, the great economist said, "things take longer to happen then you think they will, and then they happen much faster than you thought they could." i really think that's where we are. some people are using the phrase "the solar singularity" now, meaning when it gets below the grid parity, unsubsidized in most places, then it's the default choice.now, in one of the presentations yesterday, the jitney thing, there is an effort to use regulations to slow this down. and i just don't think it's going to work.there's a woman in atlanta, debbie dooley, who's the chairman of the atlanta tea party. they enlisted her in this effort to put a tax on solar panels and regulations. and she had just put solar panels on her roof and she didn't understand the request. and so she went and formed an alliance with the sierra club and they formed a new organization called the green tea party. and they defeated the proposal. so, finally, the answer to your question is, this sounds a little corny and maybe it's a cliché, but 10 years ago — and christiana referred to this — there are people in this audience who played an incredibly significant role in generating those exponential curves. and it didn't work out economically for some of them, but it kick-started this global revolution. and what people in this audience do now with the knowledge that we are going to win this. but it matters a lot how fast we win it.ca: al gore, that was incredibly powerful. if this turns out to be the year, that the partisan thing changes, as you said, it's no longer a partisan issue, but you bring along people from the other side together, backed by science, backed by these kinds of investment opportunities, backed by reason that you win the day — boy, that's really exciting.thank you so much.ag: thank you so much for bringing me back to ted. thank you! <title = "What it's like to be Muslim in America">
<tags = "['Islam', 'United States', 'culture', 'faith']">
<occupation = "Muslim studies scholar">
what do you think when you look at me? a woman of faith? an expert? maybe even a sister. or oppressed, brainwashed, a terrorist. or just an airport security line delay. that one's actually true. if some of your perceptions were negative, i don't really blame you. that's just how the media has been portraying people who look like me. one study found that 80 percent of news coverage about islam and muslims is negative. and studies show that americans say that most don't know a muslim. i guess people don't talk to their uber drivers. well, for those of you who have never met a muslim, it's great to meet you. let me tell you who i am. i'm a mom, a coffee lover — double espresso, cream on the side. i'm an introvert. i'm a wannabe fitness fanatic. and i'm a practicing, spiritual muslim. but not like lady gaga says, because baby, i wasn't born this way. it was a choice.when i was 17, i decided to come out. no, not as a gay person like some of my friends, but as a muslim, and decided to start wearing the hijab, my head covering. my feminist friends were aghast: "why are you oppressing yourself?" the funny thing was, it was actually at that time a feminist declaration of independence from the pressure i felt as a 17-year-old, to conform to a perfect and unattainable standard of beauty. i didn't just passively accept the faith of my parents. i wrestled with the quran. i read and reflected and questioned and doubted and, ultimately, believed. my relationship with god — it was not love at first sight. it was a trust and a slow surrender that deepened with every reading of the quran. its rhythmic beauty sometimes moves me to tears. i see myself in it. i feel that god knows me. have you ever felt like someone sees you, completely understands you and yet loves you anyway? that's how it feels.and so later, i got married, and like all good egyptians, started my career as an engineer. i later had a child, after getting married, and i was living essentially the egyptian-american dream.and then that terrible morning of september, 2001. i think a lot of you probably remember exactly where you were that morning. i was sitting in my kitchen finishing breakfast, and i look up on the screen and see the words "breaking news." there was smoke, airplanes flying into buildings, people jumping out of buildings. what was this? an accident? a malfunction? my shock quickly turned to outrage. who would do this? and i switch the channel and i hear,"... muslim terrorist ...," "... in the name of islam ...," "... middle-eastern descent ...," "... jihad ...," "... we should bomb mecca." oh my god.not only had my country been attacked, but in a flash, somebody else's actions had turned me from a citizen to a suspect.that same day, we had to drive across middle america to move to a new city to start grad school. and i remember sitting in the passenger seat as we drove in silence, crouched as low as i could go in my seat, for the first time in my life, afraid for anyone to know i was a muslim.we moved into our apartment that night in a new town in what felt like a completely different world. and then i was hearing and seeing and reading warnings from national muslim organizations saying things like, "be alert," "be aware," "stay in well-lit areas," "don't congregate."i stayed inside all week. and then it was friday that same week, the day that muslims congregate for worship. and again the warnings were, "don't go that first friday, it could be a target." and i was watching the news, wall-to-wall coverage. emotions were so raw, understandably, and i was also hearing about attacks on muslims, or people who were perceived to be muslim, being pulled out and beaten in the street. mosques were actually firebombed. and i thought, we should just stay home.and yet, something didn't feel right. because those people who attacked our country attacked our country. i get it that people were angry at the terrorists. guess what? so was i. and so to have to explain yourself all the time isn't easy. i don't mind questions. i love questions. it's the accusations that are tough.today we hear people actually saying things like, "there's a problem in this country, and it's called muslims. when are we going to get rid of them?" so, some people want to ban muslims and close down mosques. they talk about my community kind of like we're a tumor in the body of america. and the only question is, are we malignant or benign? you know, a malignant tumor you extract altogether, and a benign tumor you just keep under surveillance.the choices don't make sense, because it's the wrong question. muslims, like all other americans, aren't a tumor in the body of america, we're a vital organ. thank you. muslims are inventors and teachers, first responders and olympic athletes.now, is closing down mosques going to make america safer? it might free up some parking spots, but it will not end terrorism. going to a mosque regularly is actually linked to having more tolerant views of people of other faiths and greater civic engagement. and as one police chief in the washington, dc area recently told me, people don't actually get radicalized at mosques. they get radicalized in their basement or bedroom, in front of a computer. and what you find about the radicalization process is it starts online, but the first thing that happens is the person gets cut off from their community, from even their family, so that the extremist group can brainwash them into believing that they, the terrorists, are the true muslims, and everyone else who abhors their behavior and ideology are sellouts or apostates. so if we want to prevent radicalization, we have to keep people going to the mosque.now, some will still argue islam is a violent religion. after all, a group like isis bases its brutality on the quran. now, as a muslim, as a mother, as a human being, i think we need to do everything we can to stop a group like isis. but we would be giving in to their narrative if we cast them as representatives of a faith of 1.6 billion people. thank you.isis has as much to do with islam as the ku klux klan has to do with christianity. both groups claim to base their ideology on their holy book. but when you look at them, they're not motivated by what they read in their holy book. it's their brutality that makes them read these things into the scripture.recently, a prominent imam told me a story that really took me aback. he said that a girl came to him because she was thinking of going to join isis. and i was really surprised and asked him, had she been in contact with a radical religious leader? and he said the problem was quite the opposite, that every cleric that she had talked to had shut her down and said that her rage, her sense of injustice in the world, was just going to get her in trouble. and so with nowhere to channel and make sense of this anger, she was a prime target to be exploited by extremists promising her a solution. what this imam did was to connect her back to god and to her community. he didn't shame her for her rage — instead, he gave her constructive ways to make real change in the world. what she learned at that mosque prevented her from going to join isis.i've told you a little bit about how islamophobia affects me and my family. but how does it impact ordinary americans? how does it impact everyone else? how does consuming fear 24 hours a day affect the health of our democracy, the health of our free thought?well, one study — actually, several studies in neuroscience — show that when we're afraid, at least three things happen. we become more accepting of authoritarianism, conformity and prejudice. one study showed that when subjects were exposed to news stories that were negative about muslims, they became more accepting of military attacks on muslim countries and policies that curtail the rights of american muslims.now, this isn't just academic. when you look at when anti-muslim sentiment spiked between 2001 and 2013, it happened three times, but it wasn't around terrorist attacks. it was in the run up to the iraq war and during two election cycles. so islamophobia isn't just the natural response to muslim terrorism as i would have expected. it can actually be a tool of public manipulation, eroding the very foundation of a free society, which is rational and well-informed citizens. muslims are like canaries in the coal mine. we might be the first to feel it, but the toxic air of fear is harming us all. and assigning collective guilt isn't just about having to explain yourself all the time. deah and his wife yusor were a young married couple living in chapel hill, north carolina, where they both went to school. deah was an athlete. he was in dental school, talented, promising ... and his sister would tell me that he was the sweetest, most generous human being she knew. she was visiting him there and he showed her his resume, and she was amazed. she said, "when did my baby brother become such an accomplished young man?" just a few weeks after suzanne's visit to her brother and his new wife, their neighbor, craig stephen hicks, murdered them, as well as yusor's sister, razan, who was visiting for the afternoon, in their apartment, execution style, after posting anti-muslim statements on his facebook page. he shot deah eight times. so bigotry isn't just immoral, it can even be lethal.so, back to my story. what happened after 9/11? did we go to the mosque or did we play it safe and stay home? well, we talked it over, and it might seem like a small decision, but to us, it was about what kind of america we wanted to leave for our kids: one that would control us by fear or one where we were practicing our religion freely. so we decided to go to the mosque. and we put my son in his car seat, buckled him in, and we drove silently, intensely, to the mosque. i took him out, i took off my shoes, i walked into the prayer hall and what i saw made me stop. the place was completely full. and then the imam made an announcement, thanking and welcoming our guests, because half the congregation were christians, jews, buddhists, atheists, people of faith and no faith, who had come not to attack us, but to stand in solidarity with us. i just break down at this time. these people were there because they chose courage and compassion over panic and prejudice.what will you choose? what will you choose at this time of fear and bigotry? will you play it safe? or will you join those who say we are better than that?thank you. thank you so much.helen walters: so dalia, you seem to have struck a chord. but i wonder, what would you say to those who might argue that you're giving a ted talk, you're clearly a deep thinker, you work at a fancy think tank, you're an exception, you're not the rule. what would you say to those people?dalia mogahed: i would say, don't let this stage distract you, i'm completely ordinary. i'm not an exception. my story is not unusual. i am as ordinary as they come. when you look at muslims around the world — and i've done this, i've done the largest study ever done on muslims around the world — people want ordinary things. they want prosperity for their family, they want jobs and they want to live in peace. so i am not in any way an exception. when you meet people who seem like an exception to the rule, oftentimes it's that the rule is broken, not that they're an exception to it.hw: thank you so much. dalia mogahed. <title = "How to make a profit while making a difference">
<tags = "['business', 'finance', 'social change', 'sustainability']">
<occupation = "Sustainable investment expert">
i believe big institutions have unique potential to create change, and i believe that we as individuals have unique power to influence the direction that those institutions take.now, these beliefs did not come naturally to me, because trusting big institutions, not really part of my family legacy. my mother escaped north korea when she was 10 years old. to do so, she had to elude every big institution in her life: repressive governments, occupying armies and even armed border patrols. later, when she decided she wanted to emigrate to the united states, she had to defy an entire culture that said the girls would never be the best and brightest. only because her name happens to sound like a boy's was she able to finagle her way into the government immigration exam to come to the united states.because of her bravery and passion, i've had all the opportunities that she never did, and that has made my story so different. instead of running away from big institutions, i've actually run toward them. i've had the chance over the course of my career to work for the wall street journal, the white house and now one of the largest financial institutions in the world, where i lead sustainable investing.now, these institutions are like tankers, and working inside of them, i've come to appreciate what large wakes they can leave, and i've become convinced that the institution of the global capital markets, the nearly 290 trillion dollars of stocks and bonds in the world, that that may be one of our most powerful forces for positive social change at our disposal, if we ask it to be.now, i know some of you are thinking, global capital markets, positive social change, not usually in the same sentence or even the same paragraph. i think many people think of the capital markets kind of like an ocean. it's a vast, impersonal, uncaring force of nature that is not affected by our wishes or desires. so the best that our little savings accounts or retirement accounts can do is to try to catch some waves in the good cycles and hope that we don't get inundated in the turbulent ones, but certainly our decisions on how to steer our little retirement accounts don't affect the tides, don't change the shape or size or direction of the waves.but why is that? because actually, one third of this ocean of capital actually belongs to individuals like us, and most of the rest of the capital markets is controlled by the institutions that get their power and authority and their capital from us, as members, participants, beneficiaries, shareholders or citizens. so if we are the ultimate owners of the capital markets, why aren't we able to make our voices heard? why can't we make some waves?so let me ask you a different question: did any of you buy fair trade coffee the last time you were at a supermarket or at starbucks? ok. do any of you go to the restaurant and order the sustainably farmed trout instead of the miso-glazed chilean sea bass that you really wish you could have? do any of you drive hybrid cars or even electric cars?so why do we do these things? right? one electric car doesn't amount to much in a fleet of 1.2 billion combustion engine vehicles. one fish is just one fish in the sea. and one cup of coffee doesn't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. but we do these things because we believe they matter, that our actions add up, that our choices might influence others and collectively, what an impact we can have.so, in my bag i have a coffee mug that i bought a couple of years ago. it's a reusable mug. it has all these things printed on it. look at some of the things that are on it, that it says."this one cup can be used again and again.""this one cup may inspire others to use one too.""this one cup helps save the planet." i had no idea this plastic cup was so powerful. so why do we think that our choice of a four dollar shade-grown fair trade artisanal cup of coffee in a reusable mug matters, but what we do with 4,000 dollars in our investment account for our ira doesn't? why can't we tell the supermarket and the capital markets that we care, that we care about fair labor standards, that we care about sustainable production methods and about healthy communities? why aren't we voting with our investment dollars, but we would vote with our lattes?so i think it has something to do with the myths, the fables that we all carry around in our collective consciousness. do you remember the grimm's fairy tale about the magic porridge pot? if you said to the pot, "boil, little pot, boil," it would fill up with sweet porridge. and if you said, "stop, little pot, stop," it would stop. but if you got the words wrong, it wouldn't listen, and things could go terribly awry. so i think when it comes to markets, we have a little bit of a similar fable in our heads. we believe that the markets is this magic pot that obeys only one command: make more money. only those words said exactly that way will make the pot fill up with gold. add in some extra words like "protect the environment," the spell might not work. put in the wrong words like "promote social justice," and you might see your gold coins shrink or even vanish entirely, according to this fable.so we asked people, what do you really think? and we actually went out and polled a thousand individual investors, and we found something fascinating. overwhelmingly, people wanted to add those extra words into the formula. 71 percent of people said yes, they were interested in sustainable investing, which we define as taking the best in class investment process that you already have traditionally and adding in the extra information you get when you think about the environment and society and good governance. 71 percent wanted that. 72 percent said that they believe that companies who did that would actually do better financially. so people really do believe that you can do well by doing good. but here was the weird thing: 54 percent of the people still said if they put their money in those kinds of stocks, they thought that they would make less money.so is it true? do you get less sweet porridge if you invest in shade-grown coffee instead of drinking it? well, you know, the investors in companies like burt's bees or ben & jerry's wouldn't say so. right? both of those started out as small, socially conscious companies that ended up becoming so popular with consumers that the giants unilever and clorox bought them for hundreds of millions of dollars each. but here's the important thing. those corporations realized that if they wanted to protect the value of their investments, they had to preserve that socially conscious mission. if they didn't keep adding in those extra words of environmentally friendly and socially conscious, those brands wouldn't make more money.but maybe this is just the exception the proves the rule, right? the serious companies that fund our economy and that fund our retirements and that really make the world go round, they need to stick to making more money. so, harvard business school actually researched this, and they found something fascinating. if you had invested a dollar 20 years ago in a portfolio of companies that focused narrowly on making more money quarter by quarter, that one dollar would have grown to 14 dollars and 46 cents. that's not bad until you consider that if instead you'd invested that same dollar in a portfolio of companies that focused on growing their business and on the most important environmental and social issues, that one dollar would have grown to 28 dollars and 36 cents. almost twice as much sweet porridge.now, let's be clear, they didn't make that outperformance by giving away money to seem like a nice corporate citizen. they did it by focusing on the things that matter to their business, like wasting less energy and water in their manufacturing processes; like making sure the ceo contracts had the ceos incentivized for the long-term results of the company and the communities they served, not just quarterly results; or building a first class culture that would have higher employee loyalty, retention and productivity. now, harvard's not alone. oxford also did a research study where they examined 120 different studies looking at the effect of sustainability and economic results, and they found time and time and time again that the companies that cared about these kinds of important things actually had better operational efficiency, lower cost of capital and better performance in their stock price.and then there's al gore. so 20 years ago, when i worked for al gore in the white house, he was one of the early pioneers pleading with businesses and governments to pay attention to the challenges of climate change. post-white house, he opened an investment firm called generation, where he baked environmental sustainability and other things right into the core investment process. and at the time there was a good bit of skepticism about his views. ten years later, his track record is one more proof point that sustainable investing done right can be sound investing. far from making less sweet porridge because he added sustainability into the mix, he actually significantly outperformed the benchmark.now, sustainable investing, the good news is it doesn't require a magic spell and it doesn't require some investment secret, and it's not just for the elite. it is not just about private equity for billionaires. it's not just groovy-sounding investments like clean technology or microfinance in emerging markets or artisanal bakeries in brooklyn. it's about stocks and bonds and fortune 500 companies. it's about mutual funds. it's about all the things we already see in the market today.so here's why i'm convinced that we collectively have the power to make sustainable investing the new normal.first, the proof points are coming out all the time that sustainable investing done right, preserving all the same good principles of investing, the traditional sphere, can pay. it makes sense.secondly, the biggest obstacle standing in our way may actually just be in our heads. we just need to let go of that myth that if you add your values into your investment thinking, that you get less sweet porridge. and once you get rid of the fable, you can actually start appreciating those facts we've been talking about.and third, the future is already here. sustainable investment today is a 20 trillion dollar market and it's the fastest-growing segment of the investment industry. in the united states, it has grown enormously, as you can see. it now represents one out of every six dollars under professional management in the united states.so what are we waiting for? for me, it goes back to the inspiration that i received from my mother. she knew that she wanted a life where she would have the freedom to make her own choices and to have her voice heard and write her own story. she was passionate about that goal and she was clear that she would let no army, no obstacle, no big institution stand in her way. she made it to the states, and she became a teacher, an award-winning author and a mother, and ended up sending her daughters to harvard. and these days, you can tell that she is amply comfortable holding court in the most powerful institutions in the world. it seems almost too prophetic that her name in korean means "passionate clarity."passionate clarity: that's what i think we need to drive change. passion about the change we want to see in the world, and clarity that we are able to help chart the course. we have more opportunity today than ever before to make choices. we have more power than ever before to make our voices heard.so change your perspective. vote with your small change. invest in the change you want to see in the world. change the fables and change the markets.thank you. <title = "Why your doctor should care about social justice">
<tags = "['AIDS', 'Africa', 'TEDMED', 'United States', 'big problems', 'disease', 'global issues', 'government', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'inequality', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'public health', 'race', 'social change', 'virus']">
<occupation = "New York City Health Commissioner">
when i moved to harare in 1985, social justice was at the core of zimbabwe's national health policy. the new government emerged from a long war of independence and immediately proclaimed a socialist agenda: health care services, primary education became essentially free. a massive expansion of rural health centers placed roughly 80 percent of the population less than a two-hour walk from these facilities, a truly remarkable accomplishment. in 1980, the year of independence, 25 percent of zimbabwean children were fully immunized. by 1990, a mere decade later, this proportion stood at 80 percent.i felt tremendously privileged to be part of this transformation, a revolution. the excitement, the camaraderie, was palpable. working side by side with brilliant zimbabweans — scientists, doctors, activists — i felt connected not only to an african independence movement, but to a global progressive public health movement.but there were daunting challenges. zimbabwe reported its first aids case in 1985, the year i arrived. i had taken care of a few patients with aids in the early 1980s, when i did my medical training at harlem hospital, but — we had no idea what lay in store for africa. infection rate stood at about two percent in my early days there. these would soar to one out of every four adults by the time i left harare 17 years later. by the mid-1990s, i'd told hundreds of people in the prime of life that they were hiv-positive. i saw colleagues and friends die, my students, hospital patients, die.in response, my colleagues and i set up a clinic. we did condom demonstrations. we launched school education and workplace interventions. we did research. we counseled the partners of infected men about how to protect themselves. we worked hard, and at the time, i believed that i was doing my best. i was providing excellent treatment, such as it was. but i was not talking about structural change.former un secretary kofi annan has spoken candidly about his personal failure leading to the rwandan genocide. in 1994, he was head of the un peacekeeping department. at a 10-year memorial for the genocide, he reflected, "i believed at the time i was doing my best, but i realized after the genocide that there was more i could and should have done to sound the alarm and rally support."the aids epidemic caught the health community unprepared, and today, when the world health organization estimates that 39 million people have lost their lives to this disease, i'm not alone in feeling remorse and regret at not having done more earlier.but while living in zimbabwe, i didn't see my role as an advocacy or a political one. i was there for my technical skills, both my clinical and my research epidemiology skills. and in my mind, my job was to take care of patients and to do research to better understand the population patterns of transmission, and i hoped that we'd slow the spread of the virus. i was aware that socially marginalized populations were at disproportionate risk of getting and dying of aids. and on the sugar plantations, which really more closely resembled feudal fiefdoms than any modern enterprise, 60 percent of pregnant women tested hiv-positive.i worked to show how getting infected was not a moral failure but instead related to a culture of male superiority, to forced migrant labor and to colonialism. whites were largely unscathed.as health professionals, our tools were pitifully weak: imploring people to change their individual behaviors, use condoms, reduce number of partners. infection rates climbed, and when treatment became available in the west, treatment that remains our most potent weapon against this virus, it was unaffordable to the public sector across africa. i didn't speak out about the unequal access to these life-saving drugs or about the underlying economic and political systems that were driving infection rates in such huge swaths of the population. i rationalized my silence by reminding myself that i was a guest in the country, that sounding the alarm could even get me kicked out, keep me from doing good work, taking care of my patients, doing much-needed research. so i didn't speak out about the government's early stance on aids. i didn't voice my concerns loudly enough.many doctors, health professionals, may think i did nothing wrong. our pact with our patients, the hippocratic oath and its variants, is about the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship. and i did everything i could for each and every patient of mine.but i knew that epidemics emerge along the fissures of our society, reflecting not only biology, but more importantly patterns of marginalization, exclusion, discrimination related to race, gender, sexuality, class and more. it was true of aids. it was true just recently of ebola. medical anthropologists such as paul farmer, who worked on aids in haiti, call this structural violence: structural because inequities are embedded in the political and economic organization of our social world, often in ways that are invisible to those with privilege and power; and violence because its impact — premature deaths, suffering, illness — is violent. we do little for our patients if we fail to recognize these social injustices. sounding the alarm is the first step towards doing public health right, and it's how we may rally support to break through and create real change together.so these days, i'm not staying quiet. i'm speaking up about a lot of things, even when it makes listeners uncomfortable, even when it makes me uncomfortable. and a lot of this is about racial disparities and institutionalized racism, things that we're not supposed to have in this country anymore, certainly not in the practice of medicine or public health. but we have them, and we pay for them in lives cut short. that's why sounding the alarm about the impact of racism on health in the united states, the ongoing institutional and interpersonal violence that people of color face, compounded by our tragic legacy of 250 years of slavery, 90 years of jim crow and 60 years of imperfect equality, sounding the alarm about this is central to doing my job right as new york city's health commissioner. in new york city, premature mortality — that's death before the age of 65 — is 50 percent higher for black men than white ones. a black woman in 2012 faced more than 10 times the risk of dying related to childbirth as a white woman. and though we've made enormous strides in reducing infant mortality rates, a black baby still faces nearly three times the risk of death in its first year of life as compared to a white baby.new york city's not exceptional. these statistics are paralleled by statistics found across the united states. a recent new york times analysis reported that there are 1.5 million missing black men across the country. they noted that more than one out of every six black men who today should be between the ages of 25 and 54 years have disappeared from daily life, lost either to prison or premature death. there is great injustice in the daily and disproportionate violence faced by young black men, the focus of recent protests under the banner #blacklivesmatter. but we have to remember that enduring and disparate rates and the occurrence and outcome of common medical conditions — heart disease, cancer, diabetes, hiv — diseases that may kill slowly and quietly and take even more black lives prematurely.as the #blacklivesmatter movement unfolded, i felt frustrated and angry that the medical community has been reluctant to even use the word "racism" in our research and our work. you've probably felt something every time i've said it. our medical students held die-ins in their white coats, but the medical community has largely stood by passively as ongoing discrimination continues to affect the disease profile and mortality. and i worry that the trend towards personalized and precision medicine, looking for biological or genetic targets to better tailor treatment, may inadvertently cause us to lose sight of the big picture, that it is the daily context, where a person lives, grows, works, loves, that most importantly determines population health, and for too many of us, poor health.as health professionals in our daily work, whether in the clinic or doing research, we are witness to great injustice: the homeless person who is unable to follow medical advice because he has more pressing priorities; the transgender youth who is contemplating suicide because our society is just so harsh; the single mother who has been made to feel that she is responsible for the poor health of her child.our role as health professionals is not just to treat our patients but to sound the alarm and advocate for change. rightfully or not, our societal position gives our voices great credibility, and we shouldn't waste that.i regret not speaking up in zimbabwe, and i've promised myself that as new york city's health commissioner, i will use every opportunity i have to sound the alarm and rally support for health equity. i will speak out against racism, and i hope you will join me, and i will join you when you speak out against sexism or any other form of inequality. it's time for us to rise up and collectively speak up about structural inequality. we don't have to have all the answers to call for change. we just need courage. the health of our patients, the health of us all, depends on it. <title = "Why we need gender-neutral bathrooms">
<tags = "['Gender spectrum', 'LGBT', 'TEDx', 'Transgender', 'design', 'future', 'gender', 'identity', 'social change', 'storytelling']">
<occupation = "Writer, performer">
there are a few things that all of us need. we all need air to breathe. we need clean water to drink. we need food to eat. we need shelter and love. you know. love is great, too. and we all need a safe place to pee. yeah?as a trans person who doesn't fit neatly into the gender binary, if i could change the world tomorrow to make it easier for me to navigate, the very first thing i would do is blink and create single stall, gender-neutral bathrooms in all public places. trans people and trans issues, they've been getting a lot of mainstream media attention lately. and this is a great and necessary thing, but most of that attention has been focused on a very few individuals, most of whom are kinda rich and pretty famous, and probably don't have to worry that much anymore about where they're going to pee in between classes at their community college, or where they're going to get changed into their gym strip at their public high school. fame and money insulates these television star trans people from most of the everyday challenges that the rest of us have to tackle on a daily basis.public bathrooms. they've been a problem for me since as far back as i can remember, first when i was just a little baby tomboy and then later as a masculine-appearing, predominantly estrogen-based organism. now, today as a trans person, public bathrooms and change rooms are where i am most likely to be questioned or harassed. i've often been verbally attacked behind their doors. i've been hauled out by security guards with my pants still halfway pulled up. i've been stared at, screamed at, whispered about, and one time i got smacked in the face by a little old lady's purse that from the looks of the shiner i took home that day i am pretty certain contained at least 70 dollars of rolled up small change and a large hard candy collection. and i know what some of you are thinking, and you're mostly right. i can and do just use the men's room most of the time these days. but that doesn't solve my change room dilemmas, does it? and i shouldn't have to use the men's room because i'm not a man. i'm a trans person.and now we've got these fearmongering politicians that keep trying to pass these bathroom bills. have you heard about these? they try to legislate to try and force people like myself to use the bathroom that they deem most appropriate according to the gender i was assigned at birth. and if these politicians ever get their way, in arizona or california or florida or just last week in houston, texas, or ottawa, well then, using the men's room will not be a legal option for me either.and every time one of these politicians brings one of these bills to the table, i can't help but wonder, you know, just who will and exactly how would we go about enforcing laws like these. right? panty checks? really. genital inspections outside of bath change rooms at public pools? there's no legal or ethical or plausible way to enforce laws like these anyway. they exist only to foster fear and promote transphobia. they don't make anyone safer. but they do for sure make the world more dangerous for some of us.and meanwhile, our trans children suffer. they drop out of school, or they opt out of life altogether. trans people, especially trans and gender-nonconforming youth face additional challenges when accessing pools and gyms, but also universities, hospitals, libraries. don't even get me started on how they treat us in airports.if we don't move now to make sure that these places are truly open and accessible to everyone, then we just need to get honest and quit calling them public places. we need to just admit that they are really only open for people who fit neatly into one of two gender boxes, which i do not. i never have. and this starts very early.i know a little girl. she's the daughter of a friend of mine. she's a self-identified tomboy. i'm talking about cowboy boots and caterpillar yellow toy trucks and bug jars, the whole nine yards. one time i asked her what her favorite color was. she told me, "camouflage." so that awesome little kid, she came home from school last october from her half day of preschool with soggy pants on because the other kids at school were harassing her when she tried to use the girls' bathroom. and the teacher had already instructed her to stay out of the boys' bathroom. and she had drank two glasses of that red juice at the halloween party, and i mean, who can resist that red juice, right? it's so good. and she couldn't hold her pee any longer.her and her classmates were four years old. they already felt empowered enough to police her use of the so-called public bathrooms. she was four years old. she had already been taught the brutal lesson that there was no bathroom door at preschool with a sign on it that welcomed people like her. she'd already learned that bathrooms were going to be a problem, and that problem started with her and was hers alone. so my friend asked me to talk to her little daughter, and i did. i wanted to tell her that me and her mom were going to march on down and talk to that school, and the problem was going to go away, but i knew that wasn't true. i wanted to tell her that it was all going to get better when she got older, but i couldn't. so i asked her to tell me the story of what had happened, asked her to tell me how it made her feel. "mad and sad," she told me. so i told her that she wasn't alone and that it wasn't right what had happened to her, and then she asked me if i had ever peed in my pants before. i said yes, i had, but not for a really long time. which of course was a lie, because you know how you hit, like, 42 or 43, and sometimes you just, i don't know, you pee a little bit when you cough or sneeze, when you're running upstairs, or you're stretching. don't lie. it happens. right? she doesn't need to know that, i figure. i told her, when you get older, your bladder is going to grow bigger, too. when you get old like me, you're going to be able to hold your pee for way longer, i promised her."until you can get home?" she asked me.i said, "yes, until you can get home." she seemed to take some comfort in that.so let's just build some single stall, gender-neutral bathrooms with a little bench for getting changed into your gym clothes. we can't change the world overnight for our children, but we can give them a safe and private place to escape that world, if only for just a minute. this we can do. so let's just do it.and if you are one of those people who is sitting out there right now already coming up with a list of reasons in your head why this is not a priority, or it's too expensive, or telling yourself that giving a trans person a safe place to pee or get changed in supports a lifestyle choice that you feel offends your morality, or your masculinity, or your religious beliefs, then let me just appeal to the part of your heart that probably, hopefully, does care about the rest of the population. if you can't bring yourself to care enough about people like me, then what about women and girls with body image issues? what about anyone with body image stuff going on? what about that boy at school who is a foot shorter than his classmates, whose voice still hasn't dropped yet? hey? oh, grade eight, what a cruel master you can be. right? what about people with anxiety issues? what about people with disabilities or who need assistance in there? what about folks with bodies who, for whatever reason, don't fit into the mainstream idea of what a body should look like? how many of us still feel shy or afraid to disrobe in front of our peers, and how many of us allow that fear to keep us from something as important as physical exercise? would all those people not benefit from these single stall facilities?we can't change transphobic minds overnight, but we can give everybody a place to get changed in so that we can all get to work making the world safer for all of us.thank you for listening. thank you. <title = "Dive into an ocean photographer's world">
<tags = "['adventure', 'animals', 'beauty', 'biodiversity', 'conservation', 'curiosity', 'ecology', 'environment', 'exploration', 'fish', 'future', 'global issues', 'mission blue', 'nature', 'oceans', 'photography', 'science and art', 'sustainability', 'water']">
<occupation = "Conservation photographer">
as a kid, i used to dream about the ocean. it was this wild place full of color and life, home to these alien-looking, fantastical creatures. i pictured big sharks ruling the food chain and saw graceful sea turtles dancing across coral reefs.as a marine biologist turned photographer, i've spent most of my career looking for places as magical as those i used to dream about when i was little. as you can see, i began exploring bodies of water at a fairly young age. but the first time i truly went underwater, i was about 10 years old. and i can still vividly remember furiously finning to reach this old, encrusted cannon on a shallow coral reef. and when i finally managed to grab hold of it, i looked up, and i was instantly surrounded by fish in all colors of the rainbow. that was the day i fell in love with the ocean.thomas peschakconservation photographerin my 40 years on this planet, i've had the great privilege to explore some of its most incredible seascapes for national geographic magazine and the save our seas foundation. i've photographed everything from really, really big sharks to dainty ones that fit in the palm of your hand. i've smelled the fishy, fishy breath of humpback whales feeding just feet away from me in the cold seas off canada's great bear rainforest. and i've been privy to the mating rituals of green sea turtles in the mozambique channel.everyone on this planet affects and is affected by the ocean. and the pristine seas i used to dream of as a child are becoming harder and harder to find. they are becoming more compressed and more threatened. as we humans continue to maintain our role as the leading predator on earth, i've witnessed and photographed many of these ripple effects firsthand. for a long time, i thought i had to shock my audience out of their indifference with disturbing images. and while this approach has merits, i have come full circle. i believe that the best way for me to effect change is to sell love. i guess i'm a matchmaker of sorts and as a photographer, i have the rare opportunity to reveal animals and entire ecosystems that lie hidden beneath the ocean's surface. you can't love something and become a champion for it if you don't know it exists. uncovering this — that is the power of conservation photography.(music)i've visited hundreds of marine locations, but there are a handful of seascapes that have touched me incredibly deeply. the first time i experienced that kind of high was about 10 years ago, off south africa's rugged, wild coast. and every june and july, enormous shoals of sardines travel northwards in a mass migration we call the sardine run. and boy, do those fish have good reason to run. in hot pursuit are hoards of hungry and agile predators. common dolphins hunt together and they can separate some of the sardines from the main shoal and they create bait balls. they drive and trap the fish upward against the ocean surface and then they rush in to dine on this pulsating and movable feast. close behind are sharks. now, most people believe that sharks and dolphins are these mortal enemies, but during the sardine run, they actually coexist. in fact, dolphins actually help sharks feed more effectively. without dolphins, the bait balls are more dispersed and sharks often end up with what i call a sardine donut, or a mouth full of water. now, while i've had a few spicy moments with sharks on the sardine run, i know they don't see me as prey. however, i get bumped and tail-slapped just like any other guest at this rowdy, rowdy banquet.from the shores of africa we travel east, across the vastness that is the indian ocean to the maldives, an archipelago of coral islands. and during the stormy southwest monsoon, manta rays from all across the archipelago travel to a tiny speck in baa atoll called hanifaru. armies of crustaceans, most no bigger than the size of your pupils, are the mainstay of the manta ray's diet. when plankton concentrations become patchy, manta rays feed alone and they somersault themselves backwards again and again, very much like a puppy chasing its own tail.(music)however, when plankton densities increase, the mantas line up head-to-tail to form these long feeding chains, and any tasty morsel that escapes the first or second manta in line is surely to be gobbled up by the next or the one after. as plankton levels peak in the bay, the mantas swim closer and closer together in a unique behavior we call cyclone feeding. and as they swirl in tight formation, this multi-step column of mantas creates its own vortex, sucking in and delivering the plankton right into the mantas' cavernous mouths. the experience of diving amongst such masses of hundreds of rays is truly unforgettable.(music)when i first photographed hanifaru, the site enjoyed no protection and was threatened by development. and working with ngos like the manta trust, my images eventually helped hanifaru become a marine-protected area. now, fisherman from neighboring islands, they once hunted these manta rays to make traditional drums from their skins. today, they are the most ardent conservation champions and manta rays earn the maldivian economy in excess of 8 million dollars every single year.i have always wanted to travel back in time to an era where maps were mostly blank or they read, "there be dragons." and today, the closest i've come is visiting remote atolls in the western indian ocean. far, far away from shipping lanes and fishing fleets, diving into these waters is a poignant reminder of what our oceans once looked like.very few people have heard of bassas da india, a tiny speck of coral in the mozambique channel. its reef forms a protective outer barrier and the inner lagoon is a nursery ground for galapagos sharks. these sharks are anything but shy, even during the day. i had a bit of a hunch that they'd be even bolder and more abundant at night.(music)never before have i encountered so many sharks on a single coral outcrop. capturing and sharing moments like this — that reminds me why i chose my path.earlier this year, i was on assignment for national geographic magazine in baja california. and about halfway down the peninsula on the pacific side lies san ignacio lagoon, a critical calving ground for gray whales. for 100 years, this coast was the scene of a wholesale slaughter, where more than 20,000 gray whales were killed, leaving only a few hundred survivors. today the descendents of these same whales nudge their youngsters to the surface to play and even interact with us.(music)this species truly has made a remarkable comeback.now, on the other side of the peninsula lies cabo pulmo, a sleepy fishing village. decades of overfishing had brought them close to collapse. in 1995, local fisherman convinced the authorities to proclaim their waters a marine reserve. but what happened next was nothing short of miraculous. in 2005, after only a single decade of protection, scientists measured the largest recovery of fish ever recorded.but don't take my word for it — come with me. on a single breath, swim with me in deep, into one of the largest and densest schools of fish i have ever encountered.(music)we all have the ability to be creators of hope. and through my photography, i want to pass on the message that it is not too late for our oceans. and particularly, i want to focus on nature's resilience in the face of 7.3 billion people.my hope is that in the future, i will have to search much, much harder to make photographs like this, while creating images that showcase our respectful coexistence with the ocean. those will hopefully become an everyday occurrence for me.to thrive and survive in my profession, you really have to be a hopeless optimist. and i always operate on the assumption that the next great picture that will effect change is right around the corner, behind the next coral head, inside the next lagoon or possibly, in the one after it.(music)<title = "How yarn bombing grew into a worldwide movement">
<tags = "['TEDYouth', 'beauty', 'community', 'creativity', 'entertainment', 'materials', 'public spaces', 'street art']">
<occupation = "Textile artist">
i'm a textile artist most widely known for starting the yarn bombing movement. yarn bombing is when you take knitted or crocheted material out into the urban environment, graffiti-style — or, more specifically, without permission and unsanctioned.but when i started this over 10 years ago, i didn't have a word for it, i didn't have any ambitious notions about it, i had no visions of grandeur. all i wanted to see was something warm and fuzzy and human-like on the cold, steel, gray facade that i looked at everyday.so i wrapped the door handle. i call this the alpha piece. little did i know that this tiny piece would change the course of my life.so clearly the reaction was interesting. it intrigued me and i thought, "what else could i do?" could i do something in the public domain that would get the same reaction? so i wrapped the stop sign pole near my house. the reaction was wild. people would park their cars and get out of their cars and stare at it, and scratch their heads and stare at it, and take pictures of it and take pictures next to it, and all of that was really exciting to me and i wanted to do every stop sign pole in the neighborhood. and the more that i did, the stronger the reaction.so at this point i'm smitten. i'm hooked. this was all seductive. i found my new passion and the urban environment was my playground.so this is some of my early work. i was very curious about this idea of enhancing the ordinary, the mundane, even the ugly, and not taking away its identity or its functionality but just giving it a well-tailored suit out of knitting. and this was fun for me. it was really fun to take inanimate objects and have them come to life.so ... i think we all see the humor in this, but — i was at a point where i wanted to take it seriously. i wanted to analyze it. i wanted to know why i was letting this take over my life, why i was passionate about it, why were other people reacting so strongly to it. and i realized something. we all live in this fast-paced, digital world, but we still crave and desire something that's relatable.i think we've all become desensitized by our overdeveloped cities that we live in, and billboards and advertisements, and giant parking lots, and we don't even complain about that stuff anymore. so when you stumble upon a stop sign pole that's wrapped in knitting and it seems so out of place and then gradually — weirdly — you find a connection to it, that is the moment. that is the moment i love and that is the moment i love to share with others.so at this point, my curiosity grew. it went from the fire hydrants and the stop sign poles to what else can i do with this material. can i do something big and large-scale and insurmountable?so that's when the bus happened. this was a real game changer for me. i'll always have a soft spot in my heart for this one.at this point, people were recognizing my work but there wasn't much out there that was wrapped in knitting that was large-scale, and this definitely was the first city bus to be wrapped in knitting.so at this point, i'm experiencing, or i'm witnessing something interesting. i may have started yarn bombing but i certainly don't own it anymore. it had reached global status. people from all over the world were doing this. and i know this because i would travel to certain parts of the world that i'd never been to, and i'd stumble upon a stop sign pole and i knew i didn't wrap it.so as i pursued my own goals with my art — this is a lot of my recent work — so was yarn bombing. yarn bombing was also growing. and that experience showed me the hidden power of this craft and showed me that there was this common language i had with the rest of the world. it was through this granny hobby — this unassuming hobby — that i found commonality with people that i never thought i'd have a connection with.so as i tell my story today, i'd also like to convey to you that hidden power can be found in the most unassuming places, and we all possess skills that are just waiting to be discovered.if you think about our hands, these tools that are connected to us, and what they're capable of doing — building houses and furniture, and painting giant murals — and most of the time we hold a controller or a cell phone. and i'm totally guilty of this as well. but if you think about it, what would happen if you put those things down? what would you make? what would you create with your own hands?a lot of people think that i am a master knitter but i actually couldn't knit a sweater to save my life. but i did something interesting with knitting that had never been done before.i also wasn't "supposed to be" an artist in the sense that i wasn't formally trained to do this — i'm a math major actually. so i didn't think this was in the cards for me, but i also know that i didn't stumble upon this. and when this happened to me, i held on tight, i fought for it and i'm proud to say that i am a working artist today.so as we ponder the future, know that your future might not be so seamless. and one day, you might be as bored as i was and knit a door handle to change your world forever.thank you. <title = "What really happens when you mix medications?">
<tags = "['Internet', 'TEDMED', 'big problems', 'complexity', 'curiosity', 'data', 'depression', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'innovation', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'pharmaceuticals', 'potential', 'science']">
<occupation = "Big data techno-­optimist and internist">
so you go to the doctor and get some tests. the doctor determines that you have high cholesterol and you would benefit from medication to treat it. so you get a pillbox. you have some confidence, your physician has some confidence that this is going to work. the company that invented it did a lot of studies, submitted it to the fda. they studied it very carefully, skeptically, they approved it. they have a rough idea of how it works, they have a rough idea of what the side effects are. it should be ok. you have a little more of a conversation with your physician and the physician is a little worried because you've been blue, haven't felt like yourself, you haven't been able to enjoy things in life quite as much as you usually do. your physician says, "you know, i think you have some depression. i'm going to have to give you another pill."so now we're talking about two medications. this pill also — millions of people have taken it, the company did studies, the fda looked at it — all good. think things should go ok. think things should go ok. well, wait a minute. how much have we studied these two together?well, it's very hard to do that. in fact, it's not traditionally done. we totally depend on what we call "post-marketing surveillance," after the drugs hit the market. how can we figure out if bad things are happening between two medications? three? five? seven? ask your favorite person who has several diagnoses how many medications they're on.why do i care about this problem? i care about it deeply. i'm an informatics and data science guy and really, in my opinion, the only hope — only hope — to understand these interactions is to leverage lots of different sources of data in order to figure out when drugs can be used together safely and when it's not so safe.so let me tell you a data science story. and it begins with my student nick. let's call him "nick," because that's his name. nick was a young student. i said, "you know, nick, we have to understand how drugs work and how they work together and how they work separately, and we don't have a great understanding. but the fda has made available an amazing database. it's a database of adverse events. they literally put on the web — publicly available, you could all download it right now — hundreds of thousands of adverse event reports from patients, doctors, companies, pharmacists. and these reports are pretty simple: it has all the diseases that the patient has, all the drugs that they're on, and all the adverse events, or side effects, that they experience. it is not all of the adverse events that are occurring in america today, but it's hundreds and hundreds of thousands of drugs.so i said to nick, "let's think about glucose. glucose is very important, and we know it's involved with diabetes. let's see if we can understand glucose response. i sent nick off. nick came back."russ," he said, "i've created a classifier that can look at the side effects of a drug based on looking at this database, and can tell you whether that drug is likely to change glucose or not."he did it. it was very simple, in a way. he took all the drugs that were known to change glucose and a bunch of drugs that don't change glucose, and said, "what's the difference in their side effects? differences in fatigue? in appetite? in urination habits?" all those things conspired to give him a really good predictor. he said, "russ, i can predict with 93 percent accuracy when a drug will change glucose."i said, "nick, that's great." he's a young student, you have to build his confidence. "but nick, there's a problem. it's that every physician in the world knows all the drugs that change glucose, because it's core to our practice. so it's great, good job, but not really that interesting, definitely not publishable." he said, "i know, russ. i thought you might say that." nick is smart. "i thought you might say that, so i did one other experiment. i looked at people in this database who were on two drugs, and i looked for signals similar, glucose-changing signals, for people taking two drugs, where each drug alone did not change glucose, but together i saw a strong signal."and i said, "oh! you're clever. good idea. show me the list." and there's a bunch of drugs, not very exciting. but what caught my eye was, on the list there were two drugs: paroxetine, or paxil, an antidepressant; and pravastatin, or pravachol, a cholesterol medication.and i said, "huh. there are millions of americans on those two drugs." in fact, we learned later, 15 million americans on paroxetine at the time, 15 million on pravastatin, and a million, we estimated, on both. so that's a million people who might be having some problems with their glucose if this machine-learning mumbo jumbo that he did in the fda database actually holds up. but i said, "it's still not publishable, because i love what you did with the mumbo jumbo, with the machine learning, but it's not really standard-of-proof evidence that we have." so we have to do something else. let's go into the stanford electronic medical record. we have a copy of it that's ok for research, we removed identifying information. and i said, "let's see if people on these two drugs have problems with their glucose."now there are thousands and thousands of people in the stanford medical records that take paroxetine and pravastatin. but we needed special patients. we needed patients who were on one of them and had a glucose measurement, then got the second one and had another glucose measurement, all within a reasonable period of time — something like two months. and when we did that, we found 10 patients. however, eight out of the 10 had a bump in their glucose when they got the second p — we call this p and p — when they got the second p. either one could be first, the second one comes up, glucose went up 20 milligrams per deciliter. just as a reminder, you walk around normally, if you're not diabetic, with a glucose of around 90. and if it gets up to 120, 125, your doctor begins to think about a potential diagnosis of diabetes. so a 20 bump — pretty significant.i said, "nick, this is very cool. but, i'm sorry, we still don't have a paper, because this is 10 patients and — give me a break — it's not enough patients."so we said, what can we do? and we said, let's call our friends at harvard and vanderbilt, who also — harvard in boston, vanderbilt in nashville, who also have electronic medical records similar to ours. let's see if they can find similar patients with the one p, the other p, the glucose measurements in that range that we need.god bless them, vanderbilt in one week found 40 such patients, same trend. harvard found 100 patients, same trend. so at the end, we had 150 patients from three diverse medical centers that were telling us that patients getting these two drugs were having their glucose bump somewhat significantly.more interestingly, we had left out diabetics, because diabetics already have messed up glucose. when we looked at the glucose of diabetics, it was going up 60 milligrams per deciliter, not just 20. this was a big deal, and we said, "we've got to publish this." we submitted the paper. it was all data evidence, data from the fda, data from stanford, data from vanderbilt, data from harvard. we had not done a single real experiment.but we were nervous. so nick, while the paper was in review, went to the lab. we found somebody who knew about lab stuff. i don't do that. i take care of patients, but i don't do pipettes. they taught us how to feed mice drugs. we took mice and we gave them one p, paroxetine. we gave some other mice pravastatin. and we gave a third group of mice both of them. and lo and behold, glucose went up 20 to 60 milligrams per deciliter in the mice.so the paper was accepted based on the informatics evidence alone, but we added a little note at the end, saying, oh by the way, if you give these to mice, it goes up.that was great, and the story could have ended there. but i still have six and a half minutes. so we were sitting around thinking about all of this, and i don't remember who thought of it, but somebody said, "i wonder if patients who are taking these two drugs are noticing side effects of hyperglycemia. they could and they should. how would we ever determine that?"we said, well, what do you do? you're taking a medication, one new medication or two, and you get a funny feeling. what do you do? you go to google and type in the two drugs you're taking or the one drug you're taking, and you type in "side effects." what are you experiencing? so we said ok, let's ask google if they will share their search logs with us, so that we can look at the search logs and see if patients are doing these kinds of searches. google, i am sorry to say, denied our request. so i was bummed. i was at a dinner with a colleague who works at microsoft research and i said, "we wanted to do this study, google said no, it's kind of a bummer." he said, "well, we have the bing searches." yeah. that's great. now i felt like i was — i felt like i was talking to nick again. he works for one of the largest companies in the world, and i'm already trying to make him feel better. but he said, "no, russ — you might not understand. we not only have bing searches, but if you use internet explorer to do searches at google, yahoo, bing, any ... then, for 18 months, we keep that data for research purposes only." i said, "now you're talking!" this was eric horvitz, my friend at microsoft.so we did a study where we defined 50 words that a regular person might type in if they're having hyperglycemia, like "fatigue," "loss of appetite," "urinating a lot," "peeing a lot" — forgive me, but that's one of the things you might type in. so we had 50 phrases that we called the "diabetes words." and we did first a baseline. and it turns out that about .5 to one percent of all searches on the internet involve one of those words. so that's our baseline rate. if people type in "paroxetine" or "paxil" — those are synonyms — and one of those words, the rate goes up to about two percent of diabetes-type words, if you already know that there's that "paroxetine" word. if it's "pravastatin," the rate goes up to about three percent from the baseline. if both "paroxetine" and "pravastatin" are present in the query, it goes up to 10 percent, a huge three- to four-fold increase in those searches with the two drugs that we were interested in, and diabetes-type words or hyperglycemia-type words.we published this, and it got some attention. the reason it deserves attention is that patients are telling us their side effects indirectly through their searches. we brought this to the attention of the fda. they were interested. they have set up social media surveillance programs to collaborate with microsoft, which had a nice infrastructure for doing this, and others, to look at twitter feeds, to look at facebook feeds, to look at search logs, to try to see early signs that drugs, either individually or together, are causing problems.what do i take from this? why tell this story? well, first of all, we have now the promise of big data and medium-sized data to help us understand drug interactions and really, fundamentally, drug actions. how do drugs work? this will create and has created a new ecosystem for understanding how drugs work and to optimize their use. nick went on; he's a professor at columbia now. he did this in his phd for hundreds of pairs of drugs. he found several very important interactions, and so we replicated this and we showed that this is a way that really works for finding drug-drug interactions.however, there's a couple of things. we don't just use pairs of drugs at a time. as i said before, there are patients on three, five, seven, nine drugs. have they been studied with respect to their nine-way interaction? yes, we can do pair-wise, a and b, a and c, a and d, but what about a, b, c, d, e, f, g all together, being taken by the same patient, perhaps interacting with each other in ways that either makes them more effective or less effective or causes side effects that are unexpected? we really have no idea. it's a blue sky, open field for us to use data to try to understand the interaction of drugs.two more lessons: i want you to think about the power that we were able to generate with the data from people who had volunteered their adverse reactions through their pharmacists, through themselves, through their doctors, the people who allowed the databases at stanford, harvard, vanderbilt, to be used for research. people are worried about data. they're worried about their privacy and security — they should be. we need secure systems. but we can't have a system that closes that data off, because it is too rich of a source of inspiration, innovation and discovery for new things in medicine.and the final thing i want to say is, in this case we found two drugs and it was a little bit of a sad story. the two drugs actually caused problems. they increased glucose. they could throw somebody into diabetes who would otherwise not be in diabetes, and so you would want to use the two drugs very carefully together, perhaps not together, make different choices when you're prescribing. but there was another possibility. we could have found two drugs or three drugs that were interacting in a beneficial way. we could have found new effects of drugs that neither of them has alone, but together, instead of causing a side effect, they could be a new and novel treatment for diseases that don't have treatments or where the treatments are not effective. if we think about drug treatment today, all the major breakthroughs — for hiv, for tuberculosis, for depression, for diabetes — it's always a cocktail of drugs.and so the upside here, and the subject for a different ted talk on a different day, is how can we use the same data sources to find good effects of drugs in combination that will provide us new treatments, new insights into how drugs work and enable us to take care of our patients even better?thank you very much. <title = "Our refugee system is failing. Here's how we can fix it">
<tags = "['Europe', 'Middle East', 'Syria', 'big problems', 'disaster relief', 'economics', 'failure', 'fear', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'policy', 'potential', 'refugees', 'security', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Social scientist">
there are times when i feel really quite ashamed to be a european. in the last year, more than a million people arrived in europe in need of our help, and our response, frankly, has been pathetic.there are just so many contradictions. we mourn the tragic death of two-year-old alan kurdi, and yet, since then, more than 200 children have subsequently drowned in the mediterranean. we have international treaties that recognize that refugees are a shared responsibility, and yet we accept that tiny lebanon hosts more syrians than the whole of europe combined. we lament the existence of human smugglers, and yet we make that the only viable route to seek asylum in europe. we have labor shortages, and yet we exclude people who fit our economic and demographic needs from coming to europe. we proclaim our liberal values in opposition to fundamentalist islam, and yet — we have repressive policies that detain child asylum seekers, that separate children from their families, and that seize property from refugees.what are we doing? how has the situation come to this, that we've adopted such an inhumane response to a humanitarian crisis?i don't believe it's because people don't care, or at least i don't want to believe it's because people don't care. i believe it's because our politicians lack a vision, a vision for how to adapt an international refugee system created over 50 years ago for a changing and globalized world. and so what i want to do is take a step back and ask two really fundamental questions, the two questions we all need to ask. first, why is the current system not working? and second, what can we do to fix it?so the modern refugee regime was created in the aftermath of the second world war by these guys. its basic aim is to ensure that when a state fails, or worse, turns against its own people, people have somewhere to go, to live in safety and dignity until they can go home. it was created precisely for situations like the situation we see in syria today. through an international convention signed by 147 governments, the 1951 convention on the status of refugees, and an international organization, unhcr, states committed to reciprocally admit people onto their territory who flee conflict and persecution.but today, that system is failing. in theory, refugees have a right to seek asylum. in practice, our immigration policies block the path to safety. in theory, refugees have a right to a pathway to integration, or return to the country they've come from. but in practice, they get stuck in almost indefinite limbo. in theory, refugees are a shared global responsibility. in practice, geography means that countries proximate the conflict take the overwhelming majority of the world's refugees. the system isn't broken because the rules are wrong. it's that we're not applying them adequately to a changing world, and that's what we need to reconsider.so i want to explain to you a little bit about how the current system works. how does the refugee regime actually work? but not from a top-down institutional perspective, rather from the perspective of a refugee. so imagine a syrian woman. let's call her amira. and amira to me represents many of the people i've met in the region. amira, like around 25 percent of the world's refugees, is a woman with children, and she can't go home because she comes from this city that you see before you, homs, a once beautiful and historic city now under rubble. and so amira can't go back there. but amira also has no hope of resettlement to a third country, because that's a lottery ticket only available to less than one percent of the world's refugees.so amira and her family face an almost impossible choice. they have three basic options. the first option is that amira can take her family to a camp. in the camp, she might get assistance, but there are very few prospects for amira and her family. camps are in bleak, arid locations, often in the desert. in the zaatari refugee camp in jordan, you can hear the shells across the border in syria at nighttime. there's restricted economic activity. education is often of poor quality. and around the world, some 80 percent of refugees who are in camps have to stay for at least five years. it's a miserable existence, and that's probably why, in reality, only nine percent of syrians choose that option.alternatively, amira can head to an urban area in a neighboring country, like amman or beirut. that's an option that about 75 percent of syrian refugees have taken. but there, there's great difficulty as well. refugees in such urban areas don't usually have the right to work. they don't usually get significant access to assistance. and so when amira and her family have used up their basic savings, they're left with very little and likely to face urban destitution.so there's a third alternative, and it's one that increasing numbers of syrians are taking. amira can seek some hope for her family by risking their lives on a dangerous and perilous journey to another country, and it's that which we're seeing in europe today.around the world, we present refugees with an almost impossible choice between three options: encampment, urban destitution and dangerous journeys. for refugees, that choice is the global refugee regime today. but i think it's a false choice. i think we can reconsider that choice. the reason why we limit those options is because we think that those are the only options that are available to refugees, and they're not. politicians frame the issue as a zero-sum issue, that if we benefit refugees, we're imposing costs on citizens. we tend to have a collective assumption that refugees are an inevitable cost or burden to society. but they don't have to. they can contribute.so what i want to argue is there are ways in which we can expand that choice set and still benefit everyone else: the host states and communities, our societies and refugees themselves. and i want to suggest four ways we can transform the paradigm of how we think about refugees. all four ways have one thing in common: they're all ways in which we take the opportunities of globalization, mobility and markets, and update the way we think about the refugee issue.the first one i want to think about is the idea of enabling environments, and it starts from a very basic recognition that refugees are human beings like everyone else, but they're just in extraordinary circumstances. together with my colleagues in oxford, we've embarked on a research project in uganda looking at the economic lives of refugees. we chose uganda not because it's representative of all host countries. it's not. it's exceptional. unlike most host countries around the world, what uganda has done is give refugees economic opportunity. it gives them the right to work. it gives them freedom of movement. and the results of that are extraordinary both for refugees and the host community. in the capital city, kampala, we found that 21 percent of refugees own a business that employs other people, and 40 percent of those employees are nationals of the host country. in other words, refugees are making jobs for citizens of the host country. even in the camps, we found extraordinary examples of vibrant, flourishing and entrepreneurial businesses.for example, in a settlement called nakivale, we found examples of congolese refugees running digital music exchange businesses. we found a rwandan who runs a business that's available to allow the youth to play computer games on recycled games consoles and recycled televisions. against the odds of extreme constraint, refugees are innovating, and the gentleman you see before you is a congolese guy called demou-kay. demou-kay arrived in the settlement with very little, but he wanted to be a filmmaker. so with friends and colleagues, he started a community radio station, he rented a video camera, and he's now making films. he made two documentary films with and for our team, and he's making a successful business out of very little. it's those kinds of examples that should guide our response to refugees. rather than seeing refugees as inevitably dependent upon humanitarian assistance, we need to provide them with opportunities for human flourishing.yes, clothes, blankets, shelter, food are all important in the emergency phase, but we need to also look beyond that. we need to provide opportunities to connectivity, electricity, education, the right to work, access to capital and banking. all the ways in which we take for granted that we are plugged in to the global economy can and should apply to refugees.the second idea i want to discuss is economic zones. unfortunately, not every host country in the world takes the approach uganda has taken. most host countries don't open up their economies to refugees in the same way. but there are still pragmatic alternative options that we can use.last april, i traveled to jordan with my colleague, the development economist paul collier, and we brainstormed an idea while we were there with the international community and the government, an idea to bring jobs to syrians while supporting jordan's national development strategy. the idea is for an economic zone, one in which we could potentially integrate the employment of refugees alongside the employment of jordanian host nationals. and just 15 minutes away from the zaatari refugee camp, home to 83,000 refugees, is an existing economic zone called the king hussein bin talal development area. the government has spent over a hundred million dollars connecting it to the electricity grid, connecting it to the road network, but it lacked two things: access to labor and inward investment. so what if refugees were able to work there rather than being stuck in camps, able to support their families and develop skills through vocational training before they go back to syria? we recognized that that could benefit jordan, whose development strategy requires it to make the leap as a middle income country to manufacturing. it could benefit refugees, but it could also contribute to the postconflict reconstruction of syria by recognizing that we need to incubate refugees as the best source of eventually rebuilding syria.we published the idea in the journal foreign affairs. king abdullah has picked up on the idea. it was announced at the london syria conference two weeks ago, and a pilot will begin in the summer. the third idea that i want to put to you is preference matching between states and refugees to lead to the kinds of happy outcomes you see here in the selfie featuring angela merkel and a syrian refugee. what we rarely do is ask refugees what they want, where they want to go, but i'd argue we can do that and still make everyone better off. the economist alvin roth has developed the idea of matching markets, ways in which the preference ranking of the parties shapes an eventual match. my colleagues will jones and alex teytelboym have explored ways in which that idea could be applied to refugees, to ask refugees to rank their preferred destinations, but also allow states to rank the types of refugees they want on skills criteria or language criteria and allow those to match. now, of course you'd need to build in quotas on things like diversity and vulnerability, but it's a way of increasing the possibilities of matching. the matching idea has been successfully used to match, for instance, students with university places, to match kidney donors with patients, and it underlies the kind of algorithms that exist on dating websites. so why not apply that to give refugees greater choice?it could also be used at the national level, where one of the great challenges we face is to persuade local communities to accept refugees. and at the moment, in my country, for instance, we often send engineers to rural areas and farmers to the cities, which makes no sense at all. so matching markets offer a potential way to bring those preferences together and listen to the needs and demands of the populations that host and the refugees themselves.the fourth idea i want to put to you is of humanitarian visas. much of the tragedy and chaos we've seen in europe was entirely avoidable. it stems from a fundamental contradiction in europe's asylum policy, which is the following: that in order to seek asylum in europe, you have to arrive spontaneously by embarking on those dangerous journeys that i described. but why should those journeys be necessary in an era of the budget airline and modern consular capabilities? they're completely unnecessary journeys, and last year, they led to the deaths of over 3,000 people on europe's borders and within european territory.if refugees were simply allowed to travel directly and seek asylum in europe, we would avoid that, and there's a way of doing that through something called a humanitarian visa, that allows people to collect a visa at an embassy or a consulate in a neighboring country and then simply pay their own way through a ferry or a flight to europe. it costs around a thousand euros to take a smuggler from turkey to the greek islands. it costs 200 euros to take a budget airline from bodrum to frankfurt. if we allowed refugees to do that, it would have major advantages. it would save lives, it would undercut the entire market for smugglers, and it would remove the chaos we see from europe's front line in areas like the greek islands. it's politics that prevents us doing that rather than a rational solution.and this is an idea that has been applied. brazil has adopted a pioneering approach where over 2,000 syrians have been able to get humanitarian visas, enter brazil, and claim refugee status on arrival in brazil. and in that scheme, every syrian who has gone through it has received refugee status and been recognized as a genuine refugee.there is a historical precedent for it as well. between 1922 and 1942, these nansen passports were used as travel documents to allow 450,000 assyrians, turks and chechens to travel across europe and claim refugee status elsewhere in europe. and the nansen international refugee office received the nobel peace prize in recognition of this being a viable strategy.so all four of these ideas that i've presented you are ways in which we can expand amira's choice set. they're ways in which we can have greater choice for refugees beyond those basic, impossible three options i explained to you and still leave others better off.in conclusion, we really need a new vision, a vision that enlarges the choices of refugees but recognizes that they don't have to be a burden. there's nothing inevitable about refugees being a cost. yes, they are a humanitarian responsibility, but they're human beings with skills, talents, aspirations, with the ability to make contributions — if we let them.in the new world, migration is not going to go away. what we've seen in europe will be with us for many years. people will continue to travel, they'll continue to be displaced, and we need to find rational, realistic ways of managing this — not based on the old logics of humanitarian assistance, not based on logics of charity, but building on the opportunities offered by globalization, markets and mobility. i'd urge you all to wake up and urge our politicians to wake up to this challenge.thank you very much. <title = "Uber's plan to get more people into fewer cars">
<tags = "['Brand', 'Internet', 'business', 'cars', 'china', 'cities', 'driverless cars', 'economics', 'entrepreneur', 'environment', 'future', 'green', 'india', 'innovation', 'invention', 'investment', 'mobility', 'pollution', 'potential', 'society', 'software', 'sustainability', 'technology', 'transportation', 'web']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
today i wanted to — well, this morning — i want to talk about the future of human-driven transportation; about how we can cut congestion, pollution and parking by getting more people into fewer cars; and how we can do it with the technology that's in our pockets. and yes, i'm talking about smartphones ... not self-driving cars.but to get started we've got to go back over 100 years. because it turns out there was an uber way before uber. and if it had survived, the future of transportation would probably already be here.so let me introduce you to the jitney. in 1914 it was created or invented by a guy named lp draper. he was a car salesman from la, and he had an idea. well, he was cruising around downtown los angeles, my hometown, and he saw trolleys with long lines of people trying to get to where they wanted to go. he said, well, why don't i just put a sign on my car that takes people wherever they want to go for a jitney — that was slang for a nickel.and so people jumped on board, and not just in los angeles but across the country. and within one year, by 1915, there were 50,000 rides per day in seattle, 45,000 rides per day in kansas and 150,000 rides per day in los angeles. to give you some perspective, uber in los angeles is doing 157,000 rides per day, today ... 100 years later.and so these are the trolley guys, the existing transportation monopoly at the time. they were clearly not happy about the jitney juggernaut. and so they got to work and they went to cities across the country and got regulations put in place to slow down the growth of the jitney.and there were all kinds of regulations. there were licenses — often they were pricey. in some cities, if you were a jitney driver, you were required to be in the jitney for 16 hours a day. in other cities, they required two jitney drivers for one jitney. but there was a really interesting regulation which was they had to put a backseat light — install it in every jitney — to stop a new pernicious innovation which they called spooning. all right. so what happened? well, within a year this thing had taken off. but the jitney, by 1919, was regulated completely out of existence.that's unfortunate ... because, well, when you can't share a car, then you have to own one. and car ownership skyrocketed and it's no wonder that by 2007, there was a car for every man, woman and child in the united states. and that phenomenon had gone global. in china by 2011, there were more car sales happening in china than in the us.now, all this private ownership of course had a public cost. in the us, we spend 7 billion hours a year, wasted, sitting in traffic. 160 billion dollars in lost productivity, of course also sitting in traffic, and one-fifth of all of our carbon footprint is spewed out in the air by those cars that we're sitting in.now, that's only four percent of our problem though. because if you have to own a car then that means 96 percent of the time your car is sitting idle. and so, up to 30 percent of our land and our space is used storing these hunks of steel. we even have skyscrapers built for cars. that's the world we live in today.now, cities have been dealing with this problem for decades. it's called mass transit. and even in a city like new york city, one of the most densely populated in the world and one of the most sophisticated mass transit systems in the world, there are still 2.5 million cars that go over those bridges every day. why is that? well, it's because mass transit hasn't yet figured out how to get to everybody's doorstep. and so back in san francisco, where i live, the situation's much worse, in fact, much worse around the world.and so the beginning of uber in 2010 was — well, we just wanted to push a button and get a ride. we didn't have any grand ambitions. but it just turned out that lots of people wanted to push a button and get a ride, and ultimately what we started to see was a lot of duplicate rides. we saw a lot of people pushing the same button at the same time going essentially to the same place.and so we started thinking about, well, how do we make those two trips and turn them into one. because if we did, that ride would be a lot cheaper — up to 50 percent cheaper — and of course for the city you've got a lot more people and a lot fewer cars.and so the big question for us was: would it work? could you have a cheaper ride cheap enough that people would be willing to share it? and the answer, fortunately, is a resounding yes.in san francisco, before uberpool, we had — well, everybody would take their car wherever the heck they wanted. and the bright colors is where we have the most cars. and once we introduced uberpool, well, you see there's not as many bright colors. more people getting around the city in fewer cars, taking cars off the road. it looks like uberpool is working.and so we rolled it out in los angeles eight months ago. and since then, we've taken 7.9 million miles off the roads and we've taken 1.4 thousand metric tons of co2 out of the air. but the part that i'm really — but my favorite statistic — remember, i'm from la, i spent years of my life sitting behind the wheel, going, "how do we fix this?" — my favorite part is that eight months later, we have added 100,000 new people that are carpooling every week.now, in china everything is supersized, and so we're doing 15 million uberpool trips per month, that's 500,000 per day. and of course we're seeing that exponential growth happen. in fact, we're seeing it in la, too. and when i talk to my team, we don't talk about, "hey, well, 100,000 people carpooling every week and we're done." how do we get that to a million? and in china, well, that could be several million.and so uberpool is a very great solution for urban carpooling. but what about the suburbs?this is the street where i grew up in los angeles, it's actually a suburb called northridge, california, and, well — look, those mailboxes, they kind of just go on forever. and every morning at about the same time, cars roll of out their driveway, most of them, one person in the car, and they go to work, they go to their place of work. so the question for us is: well, how do we turn all of these commuter cars — and literally there's tens of millions of them — how do we turn all these commuter cars into shared cars?well, we have something for this that we recently launched called ubercommute. you get up in the morning, get ready for work, get your coffee, go to your car and you light up the uber app, and all of a sudden, you become an uber driver. and we'll match you up with one of your neighbors on your way to work and it's a really great thing.there's just one hitch ... it's called regulation. so 54 cents a mile, what is that? well, that is what the us government has determined that the cost of owning a car is per mile. you can pick up anybody in the united states and take them wherever they want to go at a moment's notice, for 54 cents a mile or less. but if you charge 60 cents a mile, you're a criminal. but what if for 60 cents a mile we could get half a million more people carpooling in los angeles? and what if at 60 cents a mile we could get 50 million people carpooling in the united states? if we could, it's obviously something we should do.and so it goes back to the lesson of the jitney. if by 1915 this thing was taking off, imagine without the regulations that happened, if that thing could just keep going. how would our cities be different today? would we have parks in the place of parking lots? well, we lost that chance. but technology has given us another opportunity.now, i'm as excited as anybody else about self-driving cars but do we have to really wait five, 10 or even 20 years to make our new cities a reality? with the technology in our pockets today, and a little smart regulation, we can turn every car into a shared car, and we can reclaim our cities starting today.thank you. chris anderson: travis, thank you.travis kalanick: thank you.ca: you know — i mean the company you've built is absolutely astounding. you only just talked about a small part of it here — a powerful part — the idea of turning cars into public transport like that, it's cool. but i've got a couple other questions because i know they're out there on people's minds.so first of all, last week i think it was, i switched on my phone and tried to book an uber and i couldn't find the app. you had this very radical, very bold, brave redesign.tk: sure.ca: how did it go? did you notice other people not finding the app that day? are you going to win people over for this redesign?tk: well, first i should probably just say, well, what we were trying to accomplish. and i think if you know a little bit about our history, it makes a lot more sense. which is, when we first got started, it was just black cars. it was literally you push a button and get an s-class. and so what we did was almost what i would call an immature version of a luxury brand that looked like a badge on a luxury car.and as we've gone worldwide and gone from s-classes to auto rickshaws in india, it became something that was important for us to be more accessible, to be more hyperlocal, to be about the cities we were in and that's what you see with the patterns and colors. and to be more iconic, because a u doesn't mean anything in sanskrit, and a u doesn't mean anything in mandarin. and so that was a little bit what it was about.now, when you first roll out something like that, i mean, your hands are sweating, you've got — you know, you're a little worried. what we saw is a lot of people — actually, at the beginning, we saw a lot more people opening the app because they were curious what they would find when they opened it. and our numbers were slightly up from what we expected.ca: ok, that's cool.now, so you, yourself, are something of an enigma, i would say. your supporters and investors, who have been with you the whole way, believe that the only chance of sort of taking on the powerful, entrenched interests of taxi industry and so forth, is to have someone who is a fierce, relentless competitor, which you've certainly proved to be.some people feel you've almost taken that culture too far, and you know — like a year or two ago there was a huge controversy where a lot of women got upset. how did it feel like inside the company during that period? did you notice a loss of business? did you learn anything from that?tk: well, look, i think — i've been an entrepreneur since i've been in high school and you have — in various different ways an entrepreneur will see hard times and for us, it was about a year and a half ago, and for us it was hard times, too.now, inside, we felt like — i guess at the end of the day we felt like we were good people doing good work, but on the outside that wasn't evident. and so there was a lot that we had to do to sort of — we'd gone from a very small company — i mean if you go literally two and a half years ago, our company was 400 people, and today it's 6,500. and so when you go through that growth, you have to sort of cement your cultural values and talk about them all of the time. and make sure that people are constantly checking to say, "are we good people doing good work?" and if you check those boxes, the next part of that is making sure you're telling your story. and i think we learned a lot of lessons but i think at the end of it we came out stronger. but it was certainly a difficult period.ca: it seems to me, everywhere you turn, you're facing people who occasionally give you a hard time. some uber drivers in new york and elsewhere are mad as hell now because you changed the fees and they can barely — they claim — barely afford the deal anymore.how — you know, you said that you started this originally — just the coolness of pressing a button and summoning a ride. this thing's taken off, you're affecting the whole global economy, basically, at this point. you're being forced to be, whether you want it or not, a kind of global visionary who's changing the world. i mean — who are you? do you want that? are you ready to go with that and be what that takes?tk: well, there's a few things packed in that question, so — first is on the pricing side — i mean, keep in mind, right? uberx, when we first started, was literally 10 or 15 percent cheaper than our black car product. it's now in many cities, half the price of a taxi. and we have all the data to show that the divers are making more per hour than they would as taxi drivers.what happens is when the price goes down, people are more likely to take uber at different times of the day than they otherwise would have, and they're more likely to use it in places they wouldn't have before. and what that means for a driver is wherever he or she drops somebody off, they're much more likely to get a pickup and get back in. and so what that means is more trips per hour, more minutes of the hour where they're productive and actually, earnings come up.and we have cities where we've done literally five or six price cuts and have seen those price cuts go up over time. so even in new york — we have a blog post we call "4 septembers" — compare the earnings september after september after september. same month every year. and we see the earnings going up over time as the price comes down. and there's a perfect price point — you can't go down forever. and in those places where we bring the price down but we don't see those earnings pop, we bring the prices back up.so that addresses that first part. and then the enigma and all of this — i mean, the kind of entrepreneur i am is one that gets really excited about solving hard problems. and the way i like to describe it is it's kind of like a math professor. you know? if a math professor doesn't have hard problems to solve, that's a really sad math professor. and so at uber we like the hard problems and we like getting excited about those and solving them. but we don't want just any math problem, we want the hardest ones that we can possibly find, and we want the one that if you solve it, there's a little bit of a wow factor.ca: in a couple years' time — say five years' time, i don't know when — you roll out your incredible self-driving cars, at probably a lower cost than you currently pay for an uber ride. what do you say to your army of a million drivers plus at that time?tk: explain that again — at which time?ca: at the time when self-driving cars are coming —tk: sure, sure, sure. sorry, i missed that.ca: what do you say to a driver? tk: well, look, i think the first part is it's going to take — it's likely going to take a lot longer than i think some of the hype or media might expect. that's part one.part two is it's going to also take — there's going to be a long transition. these cars will work in certain places and not in others.for us it's an interesting challenge, right? because, well — google's been investing in this since 2007, tesla's going to be doing it, apple's going to be doing it, the manufacturers are going to be doing it. this is a world that's going to exist, and for good reason. a million people die a year in cars. and we already looked at the billions or even trillions of hours worldwide that people are spending sitting in them, driving frustrated, anxious. and think about the quality of life that improves when you give people their time back and it's not so anxiety-ridden. so i think there's a lot of good.and so the way we think about it is that it's a challenge, but one for optimistic leadership, where instead of resisting — resisting technology, maybe like the taxi industry, or the trolley industry — we have to embrace it or be a part of the future.but how do we optimistically lead through it? are there ways to partner with cities? are there ways to have education systems, vocational training, etc., for that transition period. it will take a lot longer than i think we all expect, especially that transition period. but it is a world that's going to exist, and it is going to be a better world.ca: travis, what you're building is absolutely incredible and i'm hugely grateful to you for coming to ted and sharing so openly.thank you so much. tk: thank you very much. <title = "Teach girls bravery, not perfection">
<tags = "['children', 'code', 'computers', 'education', 'future', 'inequality', 'innovation', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'potential', 'programming', 'social change', 'software', 'teaching', 'women']">
<occupation = "Education activist">
so a few years ago, i did something really brave, or some would say really stupid. i ran for congress.for years, i had existed safely behind the scenes in politics as a fundraiser, as an organizer, but in my heart, i always wanted to run. the sitting congresswoman had been in my district since 1992. she had never lost a race, and no one had really even run against her in a democratic primary. but in my mind, this was my way to make a difference, to disrupt the status quo. the polls, however, told a very different story. my pollsters told me that i was crazy to run, that there was no way that i could win.but i ran anyway, and in 2012, i became an upstart in a new york city congressional race. i swore i was going to win. i had the endorsement from the new york daily news, the wall street journal snapped pictures of me on election day, and cnbc called it one of the hottest races in the country. i raised money from everyone i knew, including indian aunties that were just so happy an indian girl was running. but on election day, the polls were right, and i only got 19 percent of the vote, and the same papers that said i was a rising political star now said i wasted 1.3 million dollars on 6,321 votes. don't do the math. it was humiliating.now, before you get the wrong idea, this is not a talk about the importance of failure. nor is it about leaning in. i tell you the story of how i ran for congress because i was 33 years old and it was the first time in my entire life that i had done something that was truly brave, where i didn't worry about being perfect.and i'm not alone: so many women i talk to tell me that they gravitate towards careers and professions that they know they're going to be great in, that they know they're going to be perfect in, and it's no wonder why. most girls are taught to avoid risk and failure. we're taught to smile pretty, play it safe, get all a's. boys, on the other hand, are taught to play rough, swing high, crawl to the top of the monkey bars and then just jump off headfirst. and by the time they're adults, whether they're negotiating a raise or even asking someone out on a date, they're habituated to take risk after risk. they're rewarded for it. it's often said in silicon valley, no one even takes you seriously unless you've had two failed start-ups. in other words, we're raising our girls to be perfect, and we're raising our boys to be brave.some people worry about our federal deficit, but i, i worry about our bravery deficit. our economy, our society, we're just losing out because we're not raising our girls to be brave. the bravery deficit is why women are underrepresented in stem, in c-suites, in boardrooms, in congress, and pretty much everywhere you look.in the 1980s, psychologist carol dweck looked at how bright fifth graders handled an assignment that was too difficult for them. she found that bright girls were quick to give up. the higher the iq, the more likely they were to give up. bright boys, on the other hand, found the difficult material to be a challenge. they found it energizing. they were more likely to redouble their efforts.what's going on? well, at the fifth grade level, girls routinely outperform boys in every subject, including math and science, so it's not a question of ability. the difference is in how boys and girls approach a challenge. and it doesn't just end in fifth grade. an hp report found that men will apply for a job if they meet only 60 percent of the qualifications, but women, women will apply only if they meet 100 percent of the qualifications. 100 percent. this study is usually invoked as evidence that, well, women need a little more confidence. but i think it's evidence that women have been socialized to aspire to perfection, and they're overly cautious. and even when we're ambitious, even when we're leaning in, that socialization of perfection has caused us to take less risks in our careers. and so those 600,000 jobs that are open right now in computing and tech, women are being left behind, and it means our economy is being left behind on all the innovation and problems women would solve if they were socialized to be brave instead of socialized to be perfect. so in 2012, i started a company to teach girls to code, and what i found is that by teaching them to code i had socialized them to be brave. coding, it's an endless process of trial and error, of trying to get the right command in the right place, with sometimes just a semicolon making the difference between success and failure. code breaks and then it falls apart, and it often takes many, many tries until that magical moment when what you're trying to build comes to life. it requires perseverance. it requires imperfection.we immediately see in our program our girls' fear of not getting it right, of not being perfect. every girls who code teacher tells me the same story. during the first week, when the girls are learning how to code, a student will call her over and she'll say, "i don't know what code to write." the teacher will look at her screen, and she'll see a blank text editor. if she didn't know any better, she'd think that her student spent the past 20 minutes just staring at the screen. but if she presses undo a few times, she'll see that her student wrote code and then deleted it. she tried, she came close, but she didn't get it exactly right. instead of showing the progress that she made, she'd rather show nothing at all. perfection or bust.it turns out that our girls are really good at coding, but it's not enough just to teach them to code.my friend lev brie, who is a professor at the university of columbia and teaches intro to java tells me about his office hours with computer science students. when the guys are struggling with an assignment, they'll come in and they'll say, "professor, there's something wrong with my code." the girls will come in and say, "professor, there's something wrong with me."we have to begin to undo the socialization of perfection, but we've got to combine it with building a sisterhood that lets girls know that they are not alone. because trying harder is not going to fix a broken system. i can't tell you how many women tell me,"i'm afraid to raise my hand, i'm afraid to ask a question, because i don't want to be the only one who doesn't understand, the only one who is struggling. when we teach girls to be brave and we have a supportive network cheering them on, they will build incredible things, and i see this every day. take, for instance, two of our high school students who built a game called tampon run — yes, tampon run — to fight against the menstruation taboo and sexism in gaming. or the syrian refugee who dared show her love for her new country by building an app to help americans get to the polls. or a 16-year-old girl who built an algorithm to help detect whether a cancer is benign or malignant in the off chance that she can save her daddy's life because he has cancer. these are just three examples of thousands, thousands of girls who have been socialized to be imperfect, who have learned to keep trying, who have learned perseverance. and whether they become coders or the next hillary clinton or beyoncé, they will not defer their dreams.and those dreams have never been more important for our country. for the american economy, for any economy to grow, to truly innovate, we cannot leave behind half our population. we have to socialize our girls to be comfortable with imperfection, and we've got to do it now. we cannot wait for them to learn how to be brave like i did when i was 33 years old. we have to teach them to be brave in schools and early in their careers, when it has the most potential to impact their lives and the lives of others, and we have to show them that they will be loved and accepted not for being perfect but for being courageous. and so i need each of you to tell every young woman you know — your sister, your niece, your employee, your colleague — to be comfortable with imperfection, because when we teach girls to be imperfect, and we help them leverage it, we will build a movement of young women who are brave and who will build a better world for themselves and for each and every one of us.thank you. thank you.chris anderson: reshma, thank you. it's such a powerful vision you have. you have a vision. tell me how it's going. how many girls are involved now in your program?reshma saujani: yeah. so in 2012, we taught 20 girls. this year we'll teach 40,000 in all 50 states. and that number is really powerful, because last year we only graduated 7,500 women in computer science. like, the problem is so bad that we can make that type of change quickly.ca: and you're working with some of the companies in this room even, who are welcoming graduates from your program?rs: yeah, we have about 80 partners, from twitter to facebook to adobe to ibm to microsoft to pixar to disney, i mean, every single company out there. and if you're not signed up, i'm going to find you, because we need every single tech company to embed a girls who code classroom in their office.ca: and you have some stories back from some of those companies that when you mix in more gender balance in the engineering teams, good things happen.rs: great things happen. i mean, i think that it's crazy to me to think about the fact that right now 85 percent of all consumer purchases are made by women. women use social media at a rate of 600 percent more than men. we own the internet, and we should be building the companies of tomorrow. and i think when companies have diverse teams, and they have incredible women that are part of their engineering teams, they build awesome things, and we see it every day.ca: reshma, you saw the reaction there. you're doing incredibly important work. this whole community is cheering you on. more power to you. thank you.rs: thank you. <title = "This computer will grow your food in the future">
<tags = "['Vaccines', 'agriculture', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'botany', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'data', 'design', 'ebola', 'ecology', 'education', 'engineering', 'environment', 'food', 'future', 'garden', 'green', 'innovation', 'nature', 'open-source', 'potential', 'science', 'software', 'sustainability', 'technology', 'virus', 'water']">
<occupation = "Principal Investigator and Director of the Open Agriculture Initiative">
food crisis. it's in the news every day. but what is it?some places in the world it's too little food, maybe too much. other places, gmo is saving the world. maybe gmo is the problem? too much agricultural runoff creating bad oceans, toxic oceans, attenuation of nutrition. they go on and on. and i find the current climate of this discussion incredibly disempowering. so how do we bring that to something that we understand?how is this apple food crisis? you've all eaten an apple in the last week, i'm sure. how old do you think it was from when it was picked? two weeks? two months? eleven months — the average age of an apple in a grocery store in the united states. and i don't expect it to be much different in europe or anywhere else in the world. we pick them, we put them in cold storage, we gas the cold storage — there's actually documented proof of workers trying to go into these environments to retrieve an apple, and dying, because the atmosphere that they slow down the process of the apple with is also toxic to humans.how is it that none of you knew this? why didn't i know this? ninety percent of the quality of that apple — all of the antioxidants — are gone by the time we get it. it's basically a little ball of sugar. how did we get so information poor and how can we do better?i think what's missing is a platform. i know platforms — i know computers, they put me on the internet when i was young. i did very weird things — on this platform. but i met people, and i could express myself.how do you express yourself in food? if we had a platform, we might feel empowered to question: what if? for me, i questioned: what if climate was democratic? so, this is a map of climate in the world. the most productive areas in green, the least productive in red. they shift and they change, and californian farmers now become mexican farmers. china picks up land in brazil to grow better food, and we're a slave to climate. what if each country had its own productive climate? what would that change about how we live? what would that change about quality of life and nutrition?the last generation's problem was, we need more food and we need it cheap. welcome to your global farm. we built a huge analog farm. all these traces — these are cars, planes, trains and automobiles. it's a miracle that we feed seven billion people with just a few of us involved in the production of food.what if ... we built a digital farm? a digital world farm. what if you could take this apple, digitize it somehow, send it through particles in the air and reconstitute it on the other side? what if?going through some of these quotes, you know, they inspire me to do what i do.first one:["japanese farming has no youth, no water, no land and no future."]that's what i landed to the day that i went to minamisanriku, one stop south of fukushima, after the disaster. the kids have headed to sendai and tokyo, the land is contaminated, they already import 70 percent of their own food. but it's not unique to japan. two percent of the american population is involved in farming. what good answer comes from two percent of any population? as we go around the world, 50 percent of the african population is under 18. eighty percent don't want to be farmers. farming is hard. the life of a small-shareholder farmer is miserable. they go into the city. in india: farmers' families not being able to have basic access to utilities, more farmer suicides this year and the previous 10 before that. it's uncomfortable to talk about. where are they going? into the city. no young people, and everyone's headed in. so how do we build this platform that inspires the youth?welcome to the new tractor. this is my combine. a number of years ago now, i went to bed bath and beyond and home depot and i started hacking. and i built silly things and i made plants dance and i attached them to my computer and i killed them all — a lot. i eventually got them to survive. and i created one of the most intimate relationships i've ever had in my life, because i was learning the language of plants. i wanted to make it bigger. they said, "knock yourself out, kid! here's an old electronics room that nobody wants. what can you do?"with my team, we built a farm inside of the media lab, a place historically known not for anything about biology but everything about digital life. inside of these 60 square feet, we produced enough food to feed about 300 people once a month — not a lot of food. and there's a lot of interesting technology in there. but the most interesting thing? beautiful, white roots, deep, green colors and a monthly harvest. is this a new cafeteria? is this a new retail experience? is this a new grocery store? i can tell you one thing for sure: this is the first time anybody in the media lab ripped the roots off of anything. we get our salad in bags; there's nothing wrong with that. but what happens when you have an image-based processing expert, a data scientist, a roboticist, ripping roots off and thinking, "huh. i know something about — i could make this happen, i want to try."in that process we would bring the plants out and we would take some back to the lab, because if you grew it, you don't throw it away; it's kind of precious to you. i have this weird tongue now, because i'm afraid to let anybody eat anything until i've eaten it first, because i want it to be good. so i eat lettuce every day and i can tell the ph of a lettuce within .1. i'm like, "no, that's 6.1 — no, no, you can't eat it today." this lettuce that day was hyper sweet. it was hyper sweet because the plant had been stressed and it created a chemical reaction in the plant to protect itself: "i'm not going to die!" and the plants not-going-to-die, taste sweet to me. technologists falling backwards into plant physiology.so we thought other people needed to be able to try this. we want to see what people can create, so we conceived of a lab that could be shipped anywhere. and then we built it.so on the facade of the media lab is my lab, that has about 30 points of sensing per plant. if you know about the genome or genetics, this is the phenome, right? the phenomena. when you say, "i like the strawberries from mexico," you really like the strawberries from the climate that produced the expression that you like. so if you're coding climate — this much co2, this much o2 creates a recipe — you're coding the expression of that plant, the nutrition of that plant, the size of that plant, the shape, the color, the texture. we need data, so we put a bunch of sensors in there to tell us what's going on.if you think of your houseplants, and you look at your houseplant and you're super sad, because you're like, "why are you dying? won't you talk to me?" farmers develop the most beautiful fortune-telling eyes by the time they're in their late 60s and 70s. they can tell you when you see that plant dying that it's a nitrogen deficiency, a calcium deficiency or it needs more humidity. those beautiful eyes are not being passed down.these are eyes in the cloud of a farmer. we trend those data points over time. we correlate those data points to individual plants. these are all the broccoli in my lab that day, by ip address. we have ip-addressable broccoli. so if that's not weird enough, you can click one and you get a plant profile. and what this tells you is downloadable progress on that plant, but not like you'd think, it's not just when it's ready. when does it achieve the nutrition that i need? when does it achieve the taste that i desire? is it getting too much water? is it getting too much sun? alerts. it can talk to me, it's conversant, we have a language. i think of that as the first user on the plant facebook, right? that's a plant profile and that plant will start making friends. and i mean it — it will make friends with other plants that use less nitrogen, more phosphorus, less potassium. we're going to learn about a complexity that we can only guess at now. and they may not friend us back — i don't know, they might friend us back, it depends on how we act.so this is my lab now. it's a little bit more systematized, my background is designing data centers in hospitals of all things, so i know a little bit about creating a controlled environment.and so — inside of this environment, we're experimenting with all kinds of things. this process, aeroponics, was developed by nasa for mir space station for reducing the amount of water they send into space. what it really does is give the plant exactly what it wants: water, minerals and oxygen. roots are not that complicated, so when you give them that, you get this amazing expression. it's like the plant has two hearts. and because it has two hearts, it grows four or five times faster. it's a perfect world. we've gone a long way into technology and seed for an adverse world and we're going to continue to do that, but we're going to have a new tool, too, which is perfect world.so we've grown all kinds of things. these tomatoes hadn't been in commercial production for 150 years. do you know that we have rare and ancient seed banks? banks of seed. it's amazing. they have germplasm alive and things that you've never eaten. i am the only person in this room that's eaten that kind of tomato. problem is it was a sauce tomato and we don't know how to cook, so we ate a sauce tomato, which is not that great. but we've done things with protein — we've grown all kinds of things. we've grown humans — well maybe you could, but we didn't.but what we realized is, the tool was too big, it was too expensive. i was starting to put them around the world and they were about 100,000 dollars. finding somebody with 100 grand in their back pocket isn't easy, so we wanted to make a small one.this project was actually one of my student's — mechanical engineering undergraduate, camille. so camille and i and my team, we iterated all summer, how to make it cheaper, how to make it work better, how to make it so other people can make it. then we dropped them off in schools, seventh through eleventh grade. and if you want to be humbled, try to teach a kid something.so i went into this school and i said, "set it to 65 percent humidity."the seventh grader said, "what's humidity?"and i said, "oh, it's water in air."he said, "there's no water in air, you're an idiot." and i was like, "alright, don't trust me. actually — don't trust me, right? set it to 100. he sets it to 100 and what happens? it starts to condense, make a fog and eventually drip.and he says, "oh. humidity is rain. why didn't you just tell me that?" we've created an interface for this that's much like a game. they have a 3d environment, they can log into it anywhere in the world on their smartphone, on their tablet. they have different parts of the bots — the physical, the sensors. they select recipes that have been created by other kids anywhere in the world. they select and activate that recipe, they plant a seedling. while it's growing, they make changes. they're like, "why does a plant need co2 anyway? isn't co2 bad? it kills people." crank up co2, plant dies. or crank down co2, plant does very well. harvest plant, and you've created a new digital recipe.it's an iterative design and development and exploration process. they can download, then, all of the data about that new plant that they developed or the new digital recipe and what did it do — was it better or was it worse? imagine these as little cores of processing. we're going to learn so much.here's one of the food computers, as we call them, in a school in three weeks' time. this is three weeks of growth. but more importantly, it was the first time that this kid ever thought he could be a farmer — or that he would want to be a farmer.so, we've open-sourced all of this. it's all online; go home, try to build your first food computer. it's going to be difficult — i'm just telling you. we're in the beginning, but it's all there. it's very important to me that this is easily accessible. we're going to keep making it more so.these are farmers, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer, environmental engineer, computer scientist, plant scientist, economist, urban planners. on one platform, doing what they're good at. but we got a little too big.this is my new facility that i'm just starting. this warehouse could be anywhere. that's why i chose it. and inside of this warehouse we're going to build something kind of like this. these exist right now. take a look at it. these exist, too. one grows greens, one grows ebola vaccine. pretty amazing that plants and this darpa grand challenge winner is one of the reasons we're getting ahead of ebola. the plants are producing the protein that's ebola resistant. so pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, all they way down to lettuce.but these two things look nothing alike, and that's where i am with my field. everything is different. we're in that weird "we're alright" stage and it's like, "here's my black box —" "no, buy mine." "no, no, no — i've got intellectual property that's totally valuable. don't buy his, buy mine."and the reality is, we're just at the beginning, in a time when society is shifting, too. when we ask for more, cheaper food, we're now asking for better, environmentally friendly food. and when you have mcdonald's advertising what's in the chicken mcnugget, the most mysterious food item of all time — they are now basing their marketing plan on that — everything is changing.so into the world now. personal food computers, food servers and food data centers run on the open phenome. think open genome, but we're going to put little climate recipes, like wikipedia, that you can pull down, actuate and grow.what does this look like in a world? you remember the world connected by strings? we start having beacons. we start sending information about food, rather than sending food. this is not just my fantasy, this is where we're already deploying. food computers, food servers, soon-to-be food data centers, connecting people together to share information.the future of food is not about fighting over what's wrong with this. we know what's wrong with this. the future of food is about networking the next one billion farmers and empowering them with a platform to ask and answer the question, "what if?"thank you. <title = "The secrets I find on the mysterious ocean floor">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'adventure', 'ancient world', 'animals', 'beauty', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'chemistry', 'climate change', 'ecology', 'environment', 'exploration', 'future', 'history', 'life', 'nature', 'oceans', 'science', 'water']">
<occupation = "Ocean scientist">
well, i'm an ocean chemist. i look at the chemistry of the ocean today. i look at the chemistry of the ocean in the past. the way i look back in the past is by using the fossilized remains of deepwater corals. you can see an image of one of these corals behind me. it was collected from close to antarctica, thousands of meters below the sea, so, very different than the kinds of corals you may have been lucky enough to see if you've had a tropical holiday.so i'm hoping that this talk will give you a four-dimensional view of the ocean. two dimensions, such as this beautiful two-dimensional image of the sea surface temperature. this was taken using satellite, so it's got tremendous spatial resolution. the overall features are extremely easy to understand. the equatorial regions are warm because there's more sunlight. the polar regions are cold because there's less sunlight. and that allows big icecaps to build up on antarctica and up in the northern hemisphere. if you plunge deep into the sea, or even put your toes in the sea, you know it gets colder as you go down, and that's mostly because the deep waters that fill the abyss of the ocean come from the cold polar regions where the waters are dense.if we travel back in time 20,000 years ago, the earth looked very much different. and i've just given you a cartoon version of one of the major differences you would have seen if you went back that long. the icecaps were much bigger. they covered lots of the continent, and they extended out over the ocean. sea level was 120 meters lower. carbon dioxide [levels] were very much lower than they are today. so the earth was probably about three to five degrees colder overall, and much, much colder in the polar regions.what i'm trying to understand, and what other colleagues of mine are trying to understand, is how we moved from that cold climate condition to the warm climate condition that we enjoy today. we know from ice core research that the transition from these cold conditions to warm conditions wasn't smooth, as you might predict from the slow increase in solar radiation. and we know this from ice cores, because if you drill down into ice, you find annual bands of ice, and you can see this in the iceberg. you can see those blue-white layers. gases are trapped in the ice cores, so we can measure co2 — that's why we know co2 was lower in the past — and the chemistry of the ice also tells us about temperature in the polar regions. and if you move in time from 20,000 years ago to the modern day, you see that temperature increased. it didn't increase smoothly. sometimes it increased very rapidly, then there was a plateau, then it increased rapidly. it was different in the two polar regions, and co2 also increased in jumps.so we're pretty sure the ocean has a lot to do with this. the ocean stores huge amounts of carbon, about 60 times more than is in the atmosphere. it also acts to transport heat across the equator, and the ocean is full of nutrients and it controls primary productivity.so if we want to find out what's going on down in the deep sea, we really need to get down there, see what's there and start to explore. this is some spectacular footage coming from a seamount about a kilometer deep in international waters in the equatorial atlantic, far from land. you're amongst the first people to see this bit of the seafloor, along with my research team. you're probably seeing new species. we don't know. you'd have to collect the samples and do some very intense taxonomy. you can see beautiful bubblegum corals. there are brittle stars growing on these corals. those are things that look like tentacles coming out of corals. there are corals made of different forms of calcium carbonate growing off the basalt of this massive undersea mountain, and the dark sort of stuff, those are fossilized corals, and we're going to talk a little more about those as we travel back in time.to do that, we need to charter a research boat. this is the james cook, an ocean-class research vessel moored up in tenerife. looks beautiful, right? great, if you're not a great mariner. sometimes it looks a little more like this. this is us trying to make sure that we don't lose precious samples. everyone's scurrying around, and i get terribly seasick, so it's not always a lot of fun, but overall it is.so we've got to become a really good mapper to do this. you don't see that kind of spectacular coral abundance everywhere. it is global and it is deep, but we need to really find the right places. we just saw a global map, and overlaid was our cruise passage from last year. this was a seven-week cruise, and this is us, having made our own maps of about 75,000 square kilometers of the seafloor in seven weeks, but that's only a tiny fraction of the seafloor. we're traveling from west to east, over part of the ocean that would look featureless on a big-scale map, but actually some of these mountains are as big as everest. so with the maps that we make on board, we get about 100-meter resolution, enough to pick out areas to deploy our equipment, but not enough to see very much. to do that, we need to fly remotely-operated vehicles about five meters off the seafloor. and if we do that, we can get maps that are one-meter resolution down thousands of meters. here is a remotely-operated vehicle, a research-grade vehicle. you can see an array of big lights on the top. there are high-definition cameras, manipulator arms, and lots of little boxes and things to put your samples.here we are on our first dive of this particular cruise, plunging down into the ocean. we go pretty fast to make sure the remotely operated vehicles are not affected by any other ships. and we go down, and these are the kinds of things you see. these are deep sea sponges, meter scale. this is a swimming holothurian — it's a small sea slug, basically. this is slowed down. most of the footage i'm showing you is speeded up, because all of this takes a lot of time. this is a beautiful holothurian as well. and this animal you're going to see coming up was a big surprise. i've never seen anything like this and it took us all a bit surprised. this was after about 15 hours of work and we were all a bit trigger-happy, and suddenly this giant sea monster started rolling past. it's called a pyrosome or colonial tunicate, if you like. this wasn't what we were looking for. we were looking for corals, deep sea corals. you're going to see a picture of one in a moment. it's small, about five centimeters high. it's made of calcium carbonate, so you can see its tentacles there, moving in the ocean currents. an organism like this probably lives for about a hundred years. and as it grows, it takes in chemicals from the ocean. and the chemicals, or the amount of chemicals, depends on the temperature; it depends on the ph, it depends on the nutrients. and if we can understand how these chemicals get into the skeleton, we can then go back, collect fossil specimens, and reconstruct what the ocean used to look like in the past. and here you can see us collecting that coral with a vacuum system, and we put it into a sampling container. we can do this very carefully, i should add.some of these organisms live even longer. this is a black coral called leiopathes, an image taken by my colleague, brendan roark, about 500 meters below hawaii. four thousand years is a long time. if you take a branch from one of these corals and polish it up, this is about 100 microns across. and brendan took some analyses across this coral — you can see the marks — and he's been able to show that these are actual annual bands, so even at 500 meters deep in the ocean, corals can record seasonal changes, which is pretty spectacular.but 4,000 years is not enough to get us back to our last glacial maximum. so what do we do? we go in for these fossil specimens. this is what makes me really unpopular with my research team. so going along, there's giant sharks everywhere, there are pyrosomes, there are swimming holothurians, there's giant sponges, but i make everyone go down to these dead fossil areas and spend ages kind of shoveling around on the seafloor. and we pick up all these corals, bring them back, we sort them out. but each one of these is a different age, and if we can find out how old they are and then we can measure those chemical signals, this helps us to find out what's been going on in the ocean in the past.so on the left-hand image here, i've taken a slice through a coral, polished it very carefully and taken an optical image. on the right-hand side, we've taken that same piece of coral, put it in a nuclear reactor, induced fission, and every time there's some decay, you can see that marked out in the coral, so we can see the uranium distribution. why are we doing this? uranium is a very poorly regarded element, but i love it. the decay helps us find out about the rates and dates of what's going on in the ocean. and if you remember from the beginning, that's what we want to get at when we're thinking about climate. so we use a laser to analyze uranium and one of its daughter products, thorium, in these corals, and that tells us exactly how old the fossils are.this beautiful animation of the southern ocean i'm just going to use illustrate how we're using these corals to get at some of the ancient ocean feedbacks. you can see the density of the surface water in this animation by ryan abernathey. it's just one year of data, but you can see how dynamic the southern ocean is. the intense mixing, particularly the drake passage, which is shown by the box, is really one of the strongest currents in the world coming through here, flowing from west to east. it's very turbulently mixed, because it's moving over those great big undersea mountains, and this allows co2 and heat to exchange with the atmosphere in and out. and essentially, the oceans are breathing through the southern ocean. we've collected corals from back and forth across this antarctic passage, and we've found quite a surprising thing from my uranium dating: the corals migrated from south to north during this transition from the glacial to the interglacial. we don't really know why, but we think it's something to do with the food source and maybe the oxygen in the water.so here we are. i'm going to illustrate what i think we've found about climate from those corals in the southern ocean. we went up and down sea mountains. we collected little fossil corals. this is my illustration of that. we think back in the glacial, from the analysis we've made in the corals, that the deep part of the southern ocean was very rich in carbon, and there was a low-density layer sitting on top. that stops carbon dioxide coming out of the ocean. we then found corals that are of an intermediate age, and they show us that the ocean mixed partway through that climate transition. that allows carbon to come out of the deep ocean. and then if we analyze corals closer to the modern day, or indeed if we go down there today anyway and measure the chemistry of the corals, we see that we move to a position where carbon can exchange in and out. so this is the way we can use fossil corals to help us learn about the environment.so i want to leave you with this last slide. it's just a still taken out of that first piece of footage that i showed you. this is a spectacular coral garden. we didn't even expect to find things this beautiful. it's thousands of meters deep. there are new species. it's just a beautiful place. there are fossils in amongst, and now i've trained you to appreciate the fossil corals that are down there.so next time you're lucky enough to fly over the ocean or sail over the ocean, just think — there are massive sea mountains down there that nobody's ever seen before, and there are beautiful corals.thank you. <title = "Simple hacks for life with Parkinson's">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'creativity', 'curiosity', 'design', 'empathy', 'family', 'illusion', 'india', 'innovation', 'invention', 'mobility', 'motivation', 'product design', 'simplicity']">
<occupation = "Product designer">
in india, we have these huge families. i bet a lot of you all must have heard about it. which means that there are a lot of family events. so as a child, my parents used to drag me to these family events.but the one thing that i always looked forward to was playing around with my cousins. and there was always this one uncle who used to be there, always ready, jumping around with us, having games for us, making us kids have the time of our lives. this man was extremely successful: he was confident and powerful. but then i saw this hale and hearty person deteriorate in health. he was diagnosed with parkinson's.parkinson's is a disease that causes degeneration of the nervous system, which means that this person who used to be independent suddenly finds tasks like drinking coffee, because of tremors, much more difficult. my uncle started using a walker to walk, and to take a turn, he literally had to take one step at a time, like this, and it took forever. so this person, who used to be the center of attention in every family gathering, was suddenly hiding behind people. he was hiding from the pitiful look in people's eyes.and he's not the only one in the world. every year, 60,000 people are newly diagnosed with parkinson's, and this number is only rising. as designers, we dream that our designs solve these multifaceted problems, one solution that solves it all, but it need not always be like that. you can also target simple problems and create small solutions for them and eventually make a big impact. so my aim here was to not cure parkinson's, but to make their everyday tasks much more simple, and then make an impact.well, the first thing i targeted was tremors, right? my uncle told me that he had stopped drinking coffee or tea in public just out of embarrassment, so, well, i designed the no-spill cup. it works just purely on its form. the curve on top deflects the liquid back inside every time they have tremors, and this keeps the liquid inside compared to a normal cup. but the key here is that it is not tagged as a parkinson's patient product. it looks like a cup that could be used by you, me, any clumsy person, and that makes it much more comforting for them to use, to blend in. so, well, one problem solved, many more to go.all this while, i was interviewing him, questioning him, and then i realized that i was getting very superficial information, or just answers to my questions. but i really needed to dig deeper to get a new perspective. so i thought, well, let's observe him in his daily tasks, while he's eating, while he's watching tv. and then, when i was actually observing him walking to his dining table, it struck me, this man who finds it so difficult to walk on flat land, how does he climb a staircase? because in india we do not have a fancy rail that takes you up a staircase like in the developed countries. one actually has to climb the stairs. so he told me, "well, let me show you how i do it." let's take a look at what i saw.so he took really long to reach this position, and then all this while, i'm thinking, "oh my god, is he really going to do it? is he really, really going to do it without his walker?" and then ... and the turns, he took them so easily.so — shocked? well, i was too. so this person who could not walk on flat land was suddenly a pro at climbing stairs.on researching this, i realized that it's because it's a continuous motion. there's this other man who also suffers from the same symptoms and uses a walker, but the moment he's put on a cycle, all his symptoms vanish, because it is a continuous motion. so the key for me was to translate this feeling of walking on a staircase back to flat land. and a lot of ideas were tested and tried on him, but the one that finally worked was this one. let's take a look. he walked faster, right? i call this the staircase illusion, and actually when the staircase illusion abruptly ended, he froze, and this is called freezing of gait. so it happens a lot, so why not have a staircase illusion flowing through all their rooms, making them feel much more confident? you know, technology is not always it. what we need are human-centered solutions. i could have easily made it into a projection, or a google glass, or something like that. but i stuck to simple print on the floor. this print could be taken into hospitals to make them feel much more welcome.what i wish to do is make every parkinson's patient feel like my uncle felt that day. he told me that i made him feel like his old self again."smart" in today's world has become synonymous to high tech, and the world is only getting smarter and smarter day by day. but why can't smart be something that's simple and yet effective? all we need is a little bit of empathy and some curiosity, to go out there, observe. but let's not stop at that. let's find these complex problems. don't be scared of them. break them, boil them down into much smaller problems, and then find simple solutions for them. test these solutions, fail if needed, but with newer insights to make it better. imagine what we all could do if we all came up with simple solutions. what would the world be like if we combined all our simple solutions? let's make a smarter world, but with simplicity.thank you. <title = "This country isn't just carbon neutral -- it's carbon negative">
<tags = "['Buddhism', 'alternative energy', 'beauty', 'big problems', 'climate change', 'democracy', 'ecology', 'economics', 'environment', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'green', 'happiness', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'nature', 'pollution', 'sustainability', 'trees', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Prime Minister of Bhutan">
in case you are wondering, no, i'm not wearing a dress, and no, i'm not saying what i'm wearing underneath. this is a gho. this is my national dress. this is how all men dress in bhutan. that is how our women dress. like our women, we men get to wear pretty bright colors, but unlike our women, we get to show off our legs. our national dress is unique, but this is not the only thing that's unique about my country. our promise to remain carbon neutral is also unique, and this is what i'd like to speak about today, our promise to remain carbon neutral.but before i proceed, i should set you the context. i should tell you our story.bhutan is a small country in the himalayas. we've been called shangri-la, even the last shangri-la. but let me tell you right off the bat, we are not shangri-la. my country is not one big monastery populated with happy monks. the reality is that there are barely 700,000 of us sandwiched between two of the most populated countries on earth, china and india. the reality is that we are a small, underdeveloped country doing our best to survive. but we are doing ok. we are surviving. in fact, we are thriving, and the reason we are thriving is because we've been blessed with extraordinary kings. our enlightened monarchs have worked tirelessly to develop our country, balancing economic growth carefully with social development, environmental sustainability and cultural preservation, all within the framework of good governance. we call this holistic approach to development "gross national happiness," or gnh. back in the 1970s, our fourth king famously pronounced that for bhutan, gross national happiness is more important than gross national product. ever since, all development in bhutan is driven by gnh, a pioneering vision that aims to improve the happiness and well-being of our people.but that's easier said than done, especially when you are one of the smallest economies in the world. our entire gdp is less than two billion dollars. i know that some of you here are worth more — individually than the entire economy of my country.so our economy is small, but here is where it gets interesting. education is completely free. all citizens are guaranteed free school education, and those that work hard are given free college education. healthcare is also completely free. medical consultation, medical treatment, medicines: they are all provided by the state. we manage this because we use our limited resources very carefully, and because we stay faithful to the core mission of gnh, which is development with values. our economy is small, and we must strengthen it. economic growth is important, but that economic growth must not come from undermining our unique culture or our pristine environment.today, our culture is flourishing. we continue to celebrate our art and architecture, food and festivals, monks and monasteries. and yes, we celebrate our national dress, too. this is why i can wear my gho with pride. here's a fun fact: you're looking at the world's biggest pocket. it starts here, goes around the back, and comes out from inside here. in this pocket we store all manner of personal goods from phones and wallets to ipads, office files and books. but sometimes — sometimes even precious cargo.so our culture is flourishing, but so is our environment. 72 percent of my country is under forest cover. our constitution demands that a minimum of 60 percent of bhutan's total land shall remain under forest cover for all time. our constitution, this constitution, imposes forest cover on us. incidentally, our king used this constitution to impose democracy on us. you see, we the people didn't want democracy. we didn't ask for it, we didn't demand it, and we certainly didn't fight for it. instead, our king imposed democracy on us by insisting that he include it in the constitution. but he went further. he included provisions in the constitution that empower the people to impeach their kings, and included provisions in here that require all our kings to retire at the age of 65. fact is, we already have a king in retirement: our previous king, the great fourth, retired 10 years ago at the peak of his popularity. he was all of 51 years at that time.so as i was saying, 72 percent of our country is under forest cover, and all that forest is pristine. that's why we are one of the few remaining global biodiversity hotspots in the world, and that's why we are a carbon neutral country. in a world that is threatened with climate change, we are a carbon neutral country.turns out, it's a big deal. of the 200-odd countries in the world today, it looks like we are the only one that's carbon neutral. actually, that's not quite accurate. bhutan is not carbon neutral. bhutan is carbon negative. our entire country generates 2.2 million tons of carbon dioxide, but our forests, they sequester more than three times that amount, so we are a net carbon sink for more than four million tons of carbon dioxide each year. but that's not all. we export most of the renewable electricity we generate from our fast-flowing rivers. so today, the clean energy that we export offsets about six million tons of carbon dioxide in our neighborhood. by 2020, we'll be exporting enough electricity to offset 17 million tons of carbon dioxide. and if we were to harness even half our hydropower potential, and that's exactly what we are working at, the clean, green energy that we export would offset something like 50 million tons of carbon dioxide a year. that is more co2 than what the entire city of new york generates in one year.so inside our country, we are a net carbon sink. outside, we are offsetting carbon. and this is important stuff. you see, the world is getting warmer, and climate change is a reality. climate change is affecting my country. our glaciers are melting, causing flash floods and landslides, which in turn are causing disaster and widespread destruction in our country. i was at that lake recently. it's stunning. that's how it looked 10 years ago, and that's how it looked 20 years ago. just 20 years ago, that lake didn't exist. it was a solid glacier. a few years ago, a similar lake breached its dams and wreaked havoc in the valleys below. that destruction was caused by one glacier lake. we have 2,700 of them to contend with. the point is this: my country and my people have done nothing to contribute to global warming, but we are already bearing the brunt of its consequences. and for a small, poor country, one that is landlocked and mountainous, it is very difficult. but we are not going to sit on our hands doing nothing. we will fight climate change. that's why we have promised to remain carbon neutral.we first made this promise in 2009 during cop 15 in copenhagen, but nobody noticed. governments were so busy arguing with one another and blaming each other for causing climate change, that when a small country raised our hands and announced, "we promise to remain carbon neutral for all time," nobody heard us. nobody cared.last december in paris, at cop 21, we reiterated our promise to remain carbon neutral for all time to come. this time, we were heard. we were noticed, and everybody cared. what was different in paris was that governments came round together to accept the realities of climate change, and were willing to come together and act together and work together. all countries, from the very small to the very large, committed to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions. the un framework convention on climate change says that if these so-called intended commitments are kept, we'd be closer to containing global warming by two degrees celsius.by the way, i've requested the ted organizers here to turn up the heat in here by two degrees, so if some of you are feeling warmer than usual, you know who to blame.it's crucial that all of us keep our commitments. as far as bhutan is concerned, we will keep our promise to remain carbon neutral. here are some of the ways we are doing it. we are providing free electricity to our rural farmers. the idea is that, with free electricity, they will no longer have to use firewood to cook their food. we are investing in sustainable transport and subsidizing the purchase of electric vehicles. similarly, we are subsidizing the cost of led lights, and our entire government is trying to go paperless. we are cleaning up our entire country through clean bhutan, a national program, and we are planting trees throughout our country through green bhutan, another national program.but it is our protected areas that are at the core of our carbon neutral strategy. our protected areas are our carbon sink. they are our lungs. today, more than half our country is protected, as national parks, nature reserves and wildlife sanctuaries. but the beauty is that we've connected them all with one another through a network of biological corridors. now, what this means is that our animals are free to roam throughout our country. take this tiger, for example. it was spotted at 250 meters above sea level in the hot, subtropical jungles. two years later, that same tiger was spotted near 4,000 meters in our cold alpine mountains. isn't that awesome? we must keep it that way. we must keep our parks awesome. so every year, we set aside resources to prevent poaching, hunting, mining and pollution in our parks, and resources to help communities who live in those parks manage their forests, adapt to climate change, and lead better lives while continuing to live in harmony with mother nature.but that is expensive. over the next few years, our small economy won't have the resources to cover all the costs that are required to protect our environment. in fact, when we run the numbers, it looks like it'll take us at least 15 years before we can fully finance all our conservation efforts. but neither bhutan, nor the world can afford to spend 15 years going backwards.this is why his majesty the king started bhutan for life. bhutan for life gives us the time we need. it gives us breathing room. it is essentially a funding mechanism to look after our parks, to protect our parks, until our government can take over on our own fully. the idea is to raise a transition fund from individual donors, corporations and institutions, but the deal is closed only after predetermined conditions are met and all funds committed. so multiparty, single closing: an idea we borrowed from wall street. this means that individual donors can commit without having to worry that they'll be left supporting an underfunded plan. it's something like a kickstarter project, only with a 15-year time horizon and millions of tons of carbon dioxide at stake. once the deal is closed, we use the transition fund to protect our parks, giving our government time to increase our own funding gradually until the end of the 15-year period. after that, our government guarantees full funding forever.we are almost there. we expect to close later this year. naturally, i'm pretty excited. the world wildlife fund is our principle partner in this journey, and i want to give them a big shoutout for the excellent work they are doing in bhutan and across the world. whew, it is getting warm in here.i thank you for listening to our story, a story of how we are keeping our promise to remain carbon neutral, a story of how we are keeping our country pristine, for ourselves, our children, for your children and for the world. but we are not here to tell stories, are we? we are here to dream together. so in closing, i'd like to share one more dream that i have. what if we could mobilize our leadership and our resources, our influence and our passion, to replicate the bhutan for life idea to other countries so that they too can conserve their protected areas for all time. after all, there are many other countries who face the same issues that we face. they too have natural resources that can help win the world's fight for sustainability, only they may not have the ability to invest in them now. so what if we set up earth for life, a global fund, to kickstart the bhutan for life throughout the world? i invite you to help me, to carry this dream beyond our borders to all those who care about our planet's future. after all, we're here to dream together, to work together, to fight climate change together, to protect our planet together. because the reality is we are in it together. some of us might dress differently, but we are in it together.thank you very much, and kadrin chhe la. thank you. thank you, thank you, thank you.<title = "The gospel of doubt">
<tags = "['God', 'big problems', 'business', 'capitalism', 'community', 'education', 'faith', 'inequality', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "American">
there we were, souls and bodies packed into a texas church on the last night of our lives. packed into a room just like this, but with creaky wooden pews draped in worn-down red fabric, with an organ to my left and a choir at my back and a baptism pool built into the wall behind them. a room like this, nonetheless. with the same great feelings of suspense, the same deep hopes for salvation, the same sweat in the palms and the same people in the back not paying attention. this was december 31, 1999, the night of the second coming of christ, and the end of the world as i knew it. i had turned 12 that year and had reached the age of accountability. and once i stopped complaining about how unfair it was that jesus would return as soon as i had to be accountable for all that i had done, i figured i had better get my house in order very quickly.so i went to church as often as i could. i listened for silence as anxiously as one might listen for noise, trying to be sure that the lord hadn't pulled a fast one on me and decided to come back early.and just in case he did, i built a backup plan, by reading the "left behind" books that were all the rage at the time. and i found in their pages that if i was not taken in the rapture at midnight, i had another shot. all i had to do was avoid taking the mark of the beast, fight off demons, plagues and the antichrist himself. it would be hard — but i knew i could do it. but planning time was over now. it was 11:50pm. we had 10 minutes left, and my pastor called us out of the pews and down to the altar because he wanted to be praying when midnight struck. so every faction of the congregation took its place. the choir stayed in the choir stand, the deacons and their wives — or the baptist bourgeoisie as i like to call them — took first position in front of the altar. you see, in america, even the second coming of christ has a vip section. and right behind the baptist bourgeoisie were the elderly — these men and women whose young backs had been bent under hot suns in the cotton fields of east texas, and whose skin seemed to be burnt a creaseless noble brown, just like the clay of east texas, and whose hopes and dreams for what life might become outside of east texas had sometimes been bent and broken even further than their backs.yes, these men and women were the stars of the show for me. they had waited their whole lives for this moment, just as their medieval predecessors had longed for the end of the world, and just as my grandmother waited for the oprah winfrey show to come on channel 8 every day at 4 o'clock. and as she made her way to the altar, i snuck right in behind her, because i knew for sure that my grandmother was going to heaven. and i thought that if i held on to her hand during this prayer, i might go right on with her.so i held on and i closed my eyes to listen, to wait. and the prayers got louder. and the shouts of response to the call of the prayer went up higher even still. and the organ rolled on in to add the dirge. and the heat came on to add to the sweat. and my hand gripped firmer, so i wouldn't be the one left in the field. my eyes clenched tighter so i wouldn't see the wheat being separated from the chaff. and then a voice rang out above us: "amen."it was over. i looked at the clock. it was after midnight. i looked at the elder believers whose savior had not come, who were too proud to show any signs of disappointment, who had believed too much and for too long to start doubting now. but i was upset on their behalf. they had been duped, hoodwinked, bamboozled, and i had gone right along with them. i had prayed their prayers, i had yielded not to temptation as best i could. i had dipped my head not once, but twice in that snot-inducing baptism pool. i had believed. now what?i got home just in time to turn on the television and watch peter jennings announce the new millennium as it rolled in around the world. it struck me that it would have been strange anyway, for jesus to come back again and again based on the different time zones. and this made me feel even more ridiculous — hurt, really. but there on that night, i did not stop believing. i just believed a new thing: that it was possible not to believe. it was possible the answers i had were wrong, that the questions themselves were wrong. and now, where there was once a mountain of certitude, there was, running right down to its foundation, a spring of doubt, a spring that promised rivers.i can trace the whole drama of my life back to that night in that church when my savior did not come for me; when the thing i believed most certainly turned out to be, if not a lie, then not quite the truth. and even though most of you prepared for y2k in a very different way, i'm convinced that you are here because some part of you has done the same thing that i have done since the dawn of this new century, since my mother left and my father stayed away and my lord refused to come. and i held out my hand, reaching for something to believe in.i held on when i arrived at yale at 18, with the faith that my journey from oak cliff, texas was a chance to leave behind all the challenges i had known, the broken dreams and broken bodies i had seen. but when i found myself back home one winter break, with my face planted in the floor, my hands tied behind my back and a burglar's gun pressed to my head, i knew that even the best education couldn't save me.i held on when i showed up at lehman brothers as an intern in 2008. so hopeful — that i called home to inform my family that we'd never be poor again. but as i witnessed this temple of finance come crashing down before my eyes, i knew that even the best job couldn't save me.i held on when i showed up in washington dc as a young staffer, who had heard a voice call out from illinois, saying, "it's been a long time coming, but in this election, change has come to america." but as the congress ground to a halt and the country ripped at the seams and hope and change began to feel like a cruel joke, i knew that even the political second coming could not save me.i had knelt faithfully at the altar of the american dream, praying to the gods of my time of success, and money, and power. but over and over again, midnight struck, and i opened my eyes to see that all of these gods were dead.and from that graveyard, i began the search once more, not because i was brave, but because i knew that i would either believe or i would die.so i took a pilgrimage to yet another mecca, harvard business school — this time, knowing that i could not simply accept the salvation that it claimed to offer. no, i knew there'd be more work to do.the work began in the dark corner of a crowded party, in the late night of an early, miserable cambridge winter, when three friends and i asked a question that young folks searching for something real have asked for a very long time: "what if we took a road trip?" we didn't know where'd we go or how we'd get there, but we knew we had to do it. because all our lives we yearned, as jack kerouac wrote, to "sneak out into the night and disappear somewhere," and go find out what everybody was doing all over the country. so even though there were other voices who said that the risk was too great and the proof too thin, we went on anyhow.we went on 8,000 miles across america in the summer of 2013, through the cow pastures of montana, through the desolation of detroit, through the swamps of new orleans, where we found and worked with men and women who were building small businesses that made purpose their bottom line. and having been trained at the west point of capitalism, this struck us as a revolutionary idea. and this idea spread, growing into a nonprofit called mbas across america, a movement that landed me here on this stage today. it spread because we found a great hunger in our generation for purpose, for meaning. it spread because we found countless entrepreneurs in the nooks and crannies of america who were creating jobs and changing lives and who needed a little help.but if i'm being honest, it also spread because i fought to spread it. there was no length to which i would not go to preach this gospel, to get more people to believe that we could bind the wounds of a broken country, one social business at a time. but it was this journey of evangelism that led me to the rather different gospel that i've come to share with you today.it began one evening almost a year ago at the museum of natural history in new york city, at a gala for alumni of harvard business school. under a full-size replica of a whale, i sat with the titans of our time as they celebrated their peers and their good deeds. there was pride in a room where net worth and assets under management surpassed half a trillion dollars. we looked over all that we had made, and it was good. but it just so happened, two days later, i had to travel up the road to harlem, where i found myself sitting in an urban farm that had once been a vacant lot, listening to a man named tony tell me of the kids that showed up there every day. all of them lived below the poverty line. many of them carried all of their belongings in a backpack to avoid losing them in a homeless shelter. some of them came to tony's program, called harlem grown, to get the only meal they had each day. tony told me that he started harlem grown with money from his pension, after 20 years as a cab driver. he told me that he didn't give himself a salary, because despite success, the program struggled for resources. he told me that he would take any help that he could get. and i was there as that help.but as i left tony, i felt the sting and salt of tears welling up in my eyes. i felt the weight of revelation that i could sit in one room on one night, where a few hundred people had half a trillion dollars, and another room, two days later, just 50 blocks up the road, where a man was going without a salary to get a child her only meal of the day.and it wasn't the glaring inequality that made me want to cry, it wasn't the thought of hungry, homeless kids, it wasn't rage toward the one percent or pity toward the 99. no, i was disturbed because i had finally realized that i was the dialysis for a country that needed a kidney transplant. i realized that my story stood in for all those who were expected to pick themselves up by their bootstraps, even if they didn't have any boots; that my organization stood in for all the structural, systemic help that never went to harlem or appalachia or the lower 9th ward; that my voice stood in for all those voices that seemed too unlearned, too unwashed, too unaccommodated.and the shame of that, that shame washed over me like the shame of sitting in front of the television, watching peter jennings announce the new millennium again and again and again. i had been duped, hoodwinked, bamboozled. but this time, the false savior was me.you see, i've come a long way from that altar on the night i thought the world would end, from a world where people spoke in tongues and saw suffering as a necessary act of god and took a text to be infallible truth. yes, i've come so far that i'm right back where i started.because it simply is not true to say that we live in an age of disbelief — no, we believe today just as much as any time that came before. some of us may believe in the prophecy of brené brown or tony robbins. we may believe in the bible of the new yorker or the harvard business review. we may believe most deeply when we worship right here at the church of ted, but we desperately want to believe, we need to believe. we speak in the tongues of charismatic leaders that promise to solve all our problems. we see suffering as a necessary act of the capitalism that is our god, we take the text of technological progress to be infallible truth. and we hardly realize the human price we pay when we fail to question one brick, because we fear it might shake our whole foundation.but if you are disturbed by the unconscionable things that we have come to accept, then it must be questioning time. so i have not a gospel of disruption or innovation or a triple bottom line. i do not have a gospel of faith to share with you today, in fact. i have and i offer a gospel of doubt. the gospel of doubt does not ask that you stop believing, it asks that you believe a new thing: that it is possible not to believe. it is possible the answers we have are wrong, it is possible the questions themselves are wrong. yes, the gospel of doubt means that it is possible that we, on this stage, in this room, are wrong. because it raises the question, "why?" with all the power that we hold in our hands, why are people still suffering so bad?this doubt leads me to share that we are putting my organization, mbas across america, out of business. we have shed our staff and closed our doors and we will share our model freely with anyone who sees their power to do this work without waiting for our permission. this doubt compels me to renounce the role of savior that some have placed on me, because our time is too short and our odds are too long to wait for second comings, when the truth is that there will be no miracles here.and this doubt, it fuels me, it gives me hope that when our troubles overwhelm us, when the paths laid out for us seem to lead to our demise, when our healers bring no comfort to our wounds, it will not be our blind faith — no, it will be our humble doubt that shines a little light into the darkness of our lives and of our world and lets us raise our voice to whisper or to shout or to say simply, very simply, "there must be another way."thank you. <title = "How Airbnb designs for trust">
<tags = "['behavioral economics', 'business', 'collaboration', 'community', 'culture', 'design', 'economics', 'entrepreneur', 'future', 'innovation', 'potential', 'privacy', 'product design', 'social change', 'technology', 'trust', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Designer, co-founder of Airbnb">
i want to tell you the story about the time i almost got kidnapped in the trunk of a red mazda miata. it's the day after graduating from design school and i'm having a yard sale. and this guy pulls up in this red mazda and he starts looking through my stuff. and he buys a piece of art that i made. and it turns out he's alone in town for the night, driving cross-country on a road trip before he goes into the peace corps. so i invite him out for a beer and he tells me all about his passion for making a difference in the world.now it's starting to get late, and i'm getting pretty tired. as i motion for the tab, i make the mistake of asking him, "so where are you staying tonight?" and he makes it worse by saying, "actually, i don't have a place." and i'm thinking, "oh, man!" what do you do? we've all been there, right? do i offer to host this guy? but, i just met him — i mean, he says he's going to the peace corps, but i don't really know if he's going to the peace corps and i don't want to end up kidnapped in the trunk of a miata. that's a small trunk!so then i hear myself saying, "hey, i have an airbed you can stay on in my living room." and the voice in my head goes, "wait, what?"that night, i'm laying in bed, i'm staring at the ceiling and thinking, "oh my god, what have i done? there's a complete stranger sleeping in my living room. what if he's psychotic?" my anxiety grows so much, i leap out of bed, i sneak on my tiptoes to the door, and i lock the bedroom door.it turns out he was not psychotic. we've kept in touch ever since. and the piece of art he bought at the yard sale is hanging in his classroom; he's a teacher now.this was my first hosting experience, and it completely changed my perspective. maybe the people that my childhood taught me to label as strangers were actually friends waiting to be discovered. the idea of hosting people on airbeds gradually became natural to me and when i moved to san francisco, i brought the airbed with me.so now it's two years later. i'm unemployed, i'm almost broke, my roommate moves out, and then the rent goes up. and then i learn there's a design conference coming to town, and all the hotels are sold out. and i've always believed that turning fear into fun is the gift of creativity.so here's what i pitch my best friend and my new roommate brian chesky: "brian, thought of a way to make a few bucks — turning our place into 'designers bed and breakfast,' offering young designers who come to town a place to crash, complete with wireless internet, a small desk space, sleeping mat, and breakfast each morning. ha!"we built a basic website and airbed and breakfast was born. three lucky guests got to stay on a 20-dollar airbed on the hardwood floor. but they loved it, and so did we. i swear, the ham and swiss cheese omelets we made tasted totally different because we made them for our guests. we took them on adventures around the city, and when we said goodbye to the last guest, the door latch clicked, brian and i just stared at each other. did we just discover it was possible to make friends while also making rent?the wheels had started to turn. my old roommate, nate blecharczyk, joined as engineering co-founder. and we buckled down to see if we could turn this into a business.here's what we pitched investors: "we want to build a website where people publicly post pictures of their most intimate spaces, their bedrooms, the bathrooms — the kinds of rooms you usually keep closed when people come over. and then, over the internet, they're going to invite complete strangers to come sleep in their homes. it's going to be huge!" we sat back, and we waited for the rocket ship to blast off. it did not. no one in their right minds would invest in a service that allows strangers to sleep in people's homes. why? because we've all been taught as kids, strangers equal danger.now, when you're faced with a problem, you fall back on what you know, and all we really knew was design. in art school, you learn that design is much more than the look and feel of something — it's the whole experience. we learned to do that for objects, but here, we were aiming to build olympic trust between people who had never met. could design make that happen? is it possible to design for trust?i want to give you a sense of the flavor of trust that we were aiming to achieve. i've got a 30-second experiment that will push you past your comfort zone. if you're up for it, give me a thumbs-up. ok, i need you to take out your phones. now that you have your phone out, i'd like you to unlock your phone. now hand your unlocked phone to the person on your left. that tiny sense of panic you're feeling right now — is exactly how hosts feel the first time they open their home. because the only thing more personal than your phone is your home. people don't just see your messages, they see your bedroom, your kitchen, your toilet.now, how does it feel holding someone's unlocked phone? most of us feel really responsible. that's how most guests feel when they stay in a home. and it's because of this that our company can even exist. by the way, who's holding al gore's phone? would you tell twitter he's running for president? ok, you can hand your phones back now.so now that you've experienced the kind of trust challenge we were facing, i'd love to share a few discoveries we've made along the way. what if we changed one small thing about the design of that experiment? what if your neighbor had introduced themselves first, with their name, where they're from, the name of their kids or their dog? imagine that they had 150 reviews of people saying, "they're great at holding unlocked phones!" now how would you feel about handing your phone over?it turns out, a well-designed reputation system is key for building trust. and we didn't actually get it right the first time. it's hard for people to leave bad reviews. eventually, we learned to wait until both guests and hosts left the review before we reveal them.now, here's a discovery we made just last week. we did a joint study with stanford, where we looked at people's willingness to trust someone based on how similar they are in age, location and geography. the research showed, not surprisingly, we prefer people who are like us. the more different somebody is, the less we trust them. now, that's a natural social bias. but what's interesting is what happens when you add reputation into the mix, in this case, with reviews.now, if you've got less than three reviews, nothing changes. but if you've got more than 10, everything changes. high reputation beats high similarity. the right design can actually help us overcome one of our most deeply rooted biases.now we also learned that building the right amount of trust takes the right amount of disclosure. this is what happens when a guest first messages a host. if you share too little, like, "yo," acceptance rates go down. and if you share too much, like, "i'm having issues with my mother," acceptance rates also go down. but there's a zone that's just right, like, "love the artwork in your place. coming for vacation with my family." so how do we design for just the right amount of disclosure? we use the size of the box to suggest the right length, and we guide them with prompts to encourage sharing.we bet our whole company on the hope that, with the right design, people would be willing to overcome the stranger-danger bias. what we didn't realize is just how many people were ready and waiting to put the bias aside.this is a graph that shows our rate of adoption. there's three things happening here. the first, an unbelievable amount of luck. the second is the efforts of our team. and third is the existence of a previously unsatisfied need. now, things have been going pretty well.obviously, there are times when things don't work out. guests have thrown unauthorized parties and trashed homes. hosts have left guests stranded in the rain. in the early days, i was customer service, and those calls came right to my cell phone. i was at the front lines of trust breaking. and there's nothing worse than those calls, it hurts to even think about them. and the disappointment in the sound of someone's voice was and, i would say, still is our single greatest motivator to keep improving.thankfully, out of the 123 million nights we've ever hosted, less than a fraction of a percent have been problematic. turns out, people are justified in their trust. and when trust works out right, it can be absolutely magical.we had a guest stay with a host in uruguay, and he suffered a heart attack. the host rushed him to the hospital. they donated their own blood for his operation. let me read you his review. "excellent house for sedentary travelers prone to myocardial infarctions. the area is beautiful and has direct access to the best hospitals. javier and alejandra instantly become guardian angels who will save your life without even knowing you. they will rush you to the hospital in their own car while you're dying and stay in the waiting room while the doctors give you a bypass. they don't want you to feel lonely, they bring you books to read. and they let you stay at their house extra nights without charging you. highly recommended!" of course, not every stay is like that. but this connection beyond the transaction is exactly what the sharing economy is aiming for.now, when i heard that term, i have to admit, it tripped me up. how do sharing and transactions go together? so let's be clear; it is about commerce. but if you just called it the rental economy, it would be incomplete. the sharing economy is commerce with the promise of human connection. people share a part of themselves, and that changes everything.you know how most travel today is, like, i think of it like fast food — it's efficient and consistent, at the cost of local and authentic. what if travel were like a magnificent buffet of local experiences? what if anywhere you visited, there was a central marketplace of locals offering to get you thoroughly drunk on a pub crawl in neighborhoods you didn't even know existed. or learning to cook from the chef of a five-star restaurant?today, homes are designed around the idea of privacy and separation. what if homes were designed to be shared from the ground up? what would that look like? what if cities embraced a culture of sharing? i see a future of shared cities that bring us community and connection instead of isolation and separation.in south korea, in the city of seoul, they've actually even started this. they've repurposed hundreds of government parking spots to be shared by residents. they're connecting students who need a place to live with empty-nesters who have extra rooms. and they've started an incubator to help fund the next generation of sharing economy start-ups.tonight, just on our service, 785,000 people in 191 countries will either stay in a stranger's home or welcome one into theirs. clearly, it's not as crazy as we were taught.we didn't invent anything new. hospitality has been around forever. there's been many other websites like ours. so, why did ours eventually take off? luck and timing aside, i've learned that you can take the components of trust, and you can design for that. design can overcome our most deeply rooted stranger-danger bias. and that's amazing to me. it blows my mind. i think about this every time i see a red miata go by.now, we know design won't solve all the world's problems. but if it can help out with this one, if it can make a dent in this, it makes me wonder, what else can we design for next?thank you. <title = "Inside the mind of a master procrastinator">
<tags = "['Internet', 'brain', 'choice', 'comedy', 'decision-making', 'entertainment', 'goal-setting', 'humor', 'mind', 'online video', 'productivity', 'time', 'visualizations', 'work', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Blogger">
so in college, i was a government major, which means i had to write a lot of papers. now, when a normal student writes a paper, they might spread the work out a little like this. so, you know — you get started maybe a little slowly, but you get enough done in the first week that, with some heavier days later on, everything gets done, things stay civil. and i would want to do that like that. that would be the plan. i would have it all ready to go, but then, actually, the paper would come along, and then i would kind of do this. and that would happen every single paper.but then came my 90-page senior thesis, a paper you're supposed to spend a year on. and i knew for a paper like that, my normal work flow was not an option. it was way too big a project. so i planned things out, and i decided i kind of had to go something like this. this is how the year would go. so i'd start off light, and i'd bump it up in the middle months, and then at the end, i would kick it up into high gear just like a little staircase. how hard could it be to walk up the stairs? no big deal, right?but then, the funniest thing happened. those first few months? they came and went, and i couldn't quite do stuff. so we had an awesome new revised plan. and then — but then those middle months actually went by, and i didn't really write words, and so we were here. and then two months turned into one month, which turned into two weeks. and one day i woke up with three days until the deadline, still not having written a word, and so i did the only thing i could: i wrote 90 pages over 72 hours, pulling not one but two all-nighters — humans are not supposed to pull two all-nighters — sprinted across campus, dove in slow motion, and got it in just at the deadline.i thought that was the end of everything. but a week later i get a call, and it's the school. and they say, "is this tim urban?" and i say, "yeah." and they say, "we need to talk about your thesis." and i say, "ok." and they say, "it's the best one we've ever seen." that did not happen. it was a very, very bad thesis. i just wanted to enjoy that one moment when all of you thought, "this guy is amazing!" no, no, it was very, very bad. anyway, today i'm a writer-blogger guy. i write the blog wait but why. and a couple of years ago, i decided to write about procrastination. my behavior has always perplexed the non-procrastinators around me, and i wanted to explain to the non-procrastinators of the world what goes on in the heads of procrastinators, and why we are the way we are. now, i had a hypothesis that the brains of procrastinators were actually different than the brains of other people. and to test this, i found an mri lab that actually let me scan both my brain and the brain of a proven non-procrastinator, so i could compare them. i actually brought them here to show you today. i want you to take a look carefully to see if you can notice a difference. i know that if you're not a trained brain expert, it's not that obvious, but just take a look, ok? so here's the brain of a non-procrastinator. now ... here's my brain. there is a difference. both brains have a rational decision-maker in them, but the procrastinator's brain also has an instant gratification monkey. now, what does this mean for the procrastinator? well, it means everything's fine until this happens.[this is a perfect time to get some work done.] [nope!]so the rational decision-maker will make the rational decision to do something productive, but the monkey doesn't like that plan, so he actually takes the wheel, and he says, "actually, let's read the entire wikipedia page of the nancy kerrigan/ tonya harding scandal, because i just remembered that that happened. then — then we're going to go over to the fridge, to see if there's anything new in there since 10 minutes ago. after that, we're going to go on a youtube spiral that starts with videos of richard feynman talking about magnets and ends much, much later with us watching interviews with justin bieber's mom. "all of that's going to take a while, so we're not going to really have room on the schedule for any work today. sorry!"(sigh)now, what is going on here? the instant gratification monkey does not seem like a guy you want behind the wheel. he lives entirely in the present moment. he has no memory of the past, no knowledge of the future, and he only cares about two things: easy and fun.now, in the animal world, that works fine. if you're a dog and you spend your whole life doing nothing other than easy and fun things, you're a huge success! and to the monkey, humans are just another animal species. you have to keep well-slept, well-fed and propagating into the next generation, which in tribal times might have worked ok. but, if you haven't noticed, now we're not in tribal times. we're in an advanced civilization, and the monkey does not know what that is. which is why we have another guy in our brain, the rational decision-maker, who gives us the ability to do things no other animal can do. we can visualize the future. we can see the big picture. we can make long-term plans. and he wants to take all of that into account. and he wants to just have us do whatever makes sense to be doing right now. now, sometimes it makes sense to be doing things that are easy and fun, like when you're having dinner or going to bed or enjoying well-earned leisure time. that's why there's an overlap. sometimes they agree. but other times, it makes much more sense to be doing things that are harder and less pleasant, for the sake of the big picture. and that's when we have a conflict. and for the procrastinator, that conflict tends to end a certain way every time, leaving him spending a lot of time in this orange zone, an easy and fun place that's entirely out of the makes sense circle. i call it the dark playground. now, the dark playground is a place that all of you procrastinators out there know very well. it's where leisure activities happen at times when leisure activities are not supposed to be happening. the fun you have in the dark playground isn't actually fun, because it's completely unearned, and the air is filled with guilt, dread, anxiety, self-hatred — all of those good procrastinator feelings. and the question is, in this situation, with the monkey behind the wheel, how does the procrastinator ever get himself over here to this blue zone, a less pleasant place, but where really important things happen?well, turns out the procrastinator has a guardian angel, someone who's always looking down on him and watching over him in his darkest moments — someone called the panic monster. now, the panic monster is dormant most of the time, but he suddenly wakes up anytime a deadline gets too close or there's danger of public embarrassment, a career disaster or some other scary consequence. and importantly, he's the only thing the monkey is terrified of. now, he became very relevant in my life pretty recently, because the people of ted reached out to me about six months ago and invited me to do a ted talk. now, of course, i said yes. it's always been a dream of mine to have done a ted talk in the past.  but in the middle of all this excitement, the rational decision-maker seemed to have something else on his mind. he was saying, "are we clear on what we just accepted? do we get what's going to be now happening one day in the future? we need to sit down and work on this right now." and the monkey said, "totally agree, but let's just open google earth and zoom in to the bottom of india, like 200 feet above the ground, and scroll up for two and a half hours til we get to the top of the country, so we can get a better feel for india." so that's what we did that day. as six months turned into four and then two and then one, the people of ted decided to release the speakers. and i opened up the website, and there was my face staring right back at me. and guess who woke up? so the panic monster starts losing his mind, and a few seconds later, the whole system's in mayhem. and the monkey — remember, he's terrified of the panic monster — boom, he's up the tree! and finally, finally, the rational decision-maker can take the wheel and i can start working on the talk.now, the panic monster explains all kinds of pretty insane procrastinator behavior, like how someone like me could spend two weeks unable to start the opening sentence of a paper, and then miraculously find the unbelievable work ethic to stay up all night and write eight pages. and this entire situation, with the three characters — this is the procrastinator's system. it's not pretty, but in the end, it works. this is what i decided to write about on the blog a couple of years ago.when i did, i was amazed by the response. literally thousands of emails came in, from all different kinds of people from all over the world, doing all different kinds of things. these are people who were nurses, bankers, painters, engineers and lots and lots of phd students. and they were all writing, saying the same thing: "i have this problem too." but what struck me was the contrast between the light tone of the post and the heaviness of these emails. these people were writing with intense frustration about what procrastination had done to their lives, about what this monkey had done to them. and i thought about this, and i said, well, if the procrastinator's system works, then what's going on? why are all of these people in such a dark place?well, it turns out that there's two kinds of procrastination. everything i've talked about today, the examples i've given, they all have deadlines. and when there's deadlines, the effects of procrastination are contained to the short term because the panic monster gets involved. but there's a second kind of procrastination that happens in situations when there is no deadline. so if you wanted a career where you're a self-starter — something in the arts, something entrepreneurial — there's no deadlines on those things at first, because nothing's happening, not until you've gone out and done the hard work to get momentum, get things going. there's also all kinds of important things outside of your career that don't involve any deadlines, like seeing your family or exercising and taking care of your health, working on your relationship or getting out of a relationship that isn't working.now if the procrastinator's only mechanism of doing these hard things is the panic monster, that's a problem, because in all of these non-deadline situations, the panic monster doesn't show up. he has nothing to wake up for, so the effects of procrastination, they're not contained; they just extend outward forever. and it's this long-term kind of procrastination that's much less visible and much less talked about than the funnier, short-term deadline-based kind. it's usually suffered quietly and privately. and it can be the source of a huge amount of long-term unhappiness, and regrets. and i thought, that's why those people are emailing, and that's why they're in such a bad place. it's not that they're cramming for some project. it's that long-term procrastination has made them feel like a spectator, at times, in their own lives. the frustration is not that they couldn't achieve their dreams; it's that they weren't even able to start chasing them.so i read these emails and i had a little bit of an epiphany — that i don't think non-procrastinators exist. that's right — i think all of you are procrastinators. now, you might not all be a mess, like some of us, and some of you may have a healthy relationship with deadlines, but remember: the monkey's sneakiest trick is when the deadlines aren't there.now, i want to show you one last thing. i call this a life calendar. that's one box for every week of a 90-year life. that's not that many boxes, especially since we've already used a bunch of those. so i think we need to all take a long, hard look at that calendar. we need to think about what we're really procrastinating on, because everyone is procrastinating on something in life. we need to stay aware of the instant gratification monkey. that's a job for all of us. and because there's not that many boxes on there, it's a job that should probably start today.well, maybe not today, but ... you know. sometime soon.thank you. <title = "The reporting system that sexual assault survivors want">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'activism', 'big problems', 'crime', 'design', 'innovation', 'interface design', 'product design', 'sexual violence', 'social change', 'software', 'violence', 'women']">
<occupation = "Founder and CEO, Callisto">
hannah is excited to be going to college. she couldn't wait to get out of her parents' house, to prove to them that she's an adult, and to prove to her new friends that she belongs.she heads to a campus party where she sees a guy that she has a crush on. let's call him mike. the next day, hannah wakes up with a pounding headache. she can only remember the night in flashes. but what she does remember is throwing up in the hall outside mike's room and staring at the wall silently while he was inside her, wanting it to stop, then shakily stumbling home. she doesn't feel good about what happened, but she thinks, "maybe this is just what sex in college is?"one in five women and one in 13 men will be sexually assaulted at some point during their college career in the united states. less than 10 percent will ever report their assault to their school or to the police. and those who do, on average, wait 11 months to make the report.hannah initially just feels like dealing with what happened on her own. but when she sees mike taking girls home from parties, she's worried about them.after graduation, hannah learns that she was one of five women who mike did the exact same thing to. and this is not an unlikely scenario because 90 percent of sexual assaults are committed by repeat offenders. but with such low reporting rates, it's fairly unlikely that even repeat perpetrators will be reported, much less anything happen if they are.in fact, only six percent of assaults reported to the police end with the assailant spending a single day in prison. meaning, there's a 99 percent chance that they'll get away with it. this means there's practically no deterrent to assault in the united states.now, i'm an infectious disease epidemiologist by training. i'm interested in systems and networks and where we can concentrate our resources to do the most good. so this, to me, is a tragic but a solvable problem.so when the issue of campus assault started hitting the news a few years ago, it felt like a unique opportunity to make a change. and so we did. we started by talking to college survivors. and what they wish they'd had in college is pretty simple; they wanted a website, one they could use at the time and place that felt safest to them with clearly written information about their reporting options, with the ability to electronically report their assault, rather than having the first step to go in and talk to someone who may or may not believe them. with the option to create a secure, timestamped document of what happened to them, preserving evidence even if they don't want to report yet. and lastly, and perhaps most critically, with the ability to report their assault only if someone else reported the same assailant. you see, knowing that you weren't the only one changes everything. it changes the way you frame your own experience, it changes the way you think about your perpetrator, it means that if you do come forward, you'll have someone else's back and they'll have yours.we created a website that actually does this and we launched it [...] in august, on two college campuses.and we included a unique matching system where if mike's first victim had come forward, saved her record, entered into the matching system and named mike, and mike's second victim had done the same thing a few months later, they would have matched and the verified contact information of both survivors would have been sent to the authorities at the same time for investigation and follow up.if a system like this had existed for hannah and her peers, it's more likely that they would have reported, that they would have been believed, and that mike would have been kicked off campus, gone to jail, or at least gotten the help that he needed. and if we were able to stop repeat offenders like mike after just their second assault following a match, survivors like hannah would never even be assaulted in the first place. we could prevent 59 percent of sexual assaults just by stopping repeat perpetrators earlier on. and because we're creating a real deterrent to assault, for perhaps the first time, maybe the mikes of the world would never even try to assault anyone.the type of system i'm describing, the type of system that survivors want is a type of information escrow, meaning an entity that holds on to information for you and only releases it to a third party when certain pre-agreed upon conditions are met, such as a match. the application that we built is for college campuses. but the same type of system could be used in the military or even the workplace.we don't have to live in a world where 99 percent of rapists get away with it. we can create one where those who do wrong are held accountable, where survivors get the support and justice they deserve, where the authorities get the information they need, and where there's a real deterrent to violating the rights of another human being.thank you. <title = "A conservative's plea: Let's work together">
<tags = "['Debate', 'big problems', 'business', 'capitalism', 'collaboration', 'community', 'democracy', 'economics', 'global issues', 'government', 'identity', 'philosophy', 'policy', 'politics', 'psychology', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Social scientist, author ">
i come from one of the most liberal, tolerant, progressive places in the united states, seattle, washington. and i grew up with a family of great seattlites. my mother was an artist, my father was a college professor, and i am truly grateful for my upbringing, because i always felt completely comfortable designing my life exactly as i saw fit.and in point of fact, i took a route that was not exactly what my parents had in mind. when i was 19, i dropped out of college — dropped out, kicked out, splitting hairs. and i went on the road as a professional french horn player, which was my lifelong dream. i played chamber music all over the united states and europe, and i toured for a couple of years with a great jazz guitar player named charlie bird. and by the end of my 20s, i wound up as a member of the barcelona symphony orchestra in spain. what a great life.and you know, my parents never complained. they supported me all the way through it. it wasn't their dream. they used to tell their neighbors and friends, "our son, he's taking a gap decade." and — there was, however, one awkward conversation about my lifestyle that i want to tell you about. i was 27, and i was home from barcelona, and i was visiting my parents for christmas, and i was cooking dinner with my mother, and we were alone in the kitchen. and she was quiet, too quiet. something was wrong. and so i said, "mom, what's on your mind?" and she said, "your dad and i are really worried about you." and i said, "what?" i mean, what could it be, at this point? and she said, "i want you to be completely honest with me: have you been voting for republicans?" now, the truth is, i wasn't really political, i was just a french horn player. but i had a bit of an epiphany, and they had detected it, and it was causing some confusion. you see, i had become an enthusiast for capitalism, and i want to tell you why that is. it stems from a lifelong interest of mine in, believe it or not, poverty.see, when i was a kid growing up in seattle, i remember the first time i saw real poverty. we were a lower middle class family, but that's of course not real poverty. that's not even close. the first time i saw poverty, and poverty's face, was when i was six or seven years old, early 1970s. and it was like a lot of you, kind of a prosaic example, kind of trite. it was a picture in the national geographic magazine of a kid who was my age in east africa, and there were flies on his face and a distended belly. and he wasn't going to make it, and i knew that, and i was helpless. some of you remember that picture, not exactly that picture, one just like it. it introduced the west to grinding poverty around the world. well, that vision kind of haunted me as i grew up and i went to school and i dropped out and dropped in and started my family. and i wondered, what happened to that kid? or to people just like him all over the world? and so i started to study, even though i wasn't in college, i was looking for the answer: what happened to the world's poorest people? has it gotten worse? has it gotten better? what?and i found the answer, and it changed my life, and i want to share it with you.see — most americans believe that poverty has gotten worse since we were children, since they saw that vision. if you ask americans, "has poverty gotten worse or better around the world?", 70 percent will say that hunger has gotten worse since the early 1970s. but here's the truth. here's the epiphany that i had that changed my thinking. from 1970 until today, the percentage of the world's population living in starvation levels, living on a dollar a day or less, obviously adjusted for inflation, that percentage has declined by 80 percent. there's been an 80 percent decline in the world's worst poverty since i was a kid. and i didn't even know about it. this, my friends, that's a miracle. that's something we ought to celebrate. it's the greatest antipoverty achievement in the history of mankind, and it happened in our lifetimes. so when i learned this, i asked, what did that? what made it possible? because if you don't know why, you can't do it again. if you want to replicate it and get the next two billion people out of poverty, because that's what we're talking about: since i was a kid, two billion of the least of these, our brothers and sisters, have been pulled out of poverty. i want the next two billion, so i've got to know why. and i went in search of an answer. and it wasn't a political answer, because i didn't care. you know what, i still don't care. i wanted the best answer from mainstream economists left, right and center.and here it is. here are the reasons. there are five reasons that two billion of our brothers and sisters have been pulled out of poverty since i was a kid. number one: globalization. number two: free trade. number three: property rights. number four: rule of law. number five: entrepreneurship. it was the free enterprise system spreading around the world after 1970 that did that.now, i'm not naive. i know that free enterprise isn't perfect, and i know that free enterprise isn't everything we need to build a better world. but that is great. and that's beyond politics. here's what i learned. this is the epiphany. capitalism is not just about accumulation. at its best, it's about aspiration, which is what so many people on this stage talk about, is the aspiration that comes from dreams that are embedded in the free enterprise system. and we've got to share it with more people.now, i want to tell you about a second epiphany that's related to that first one that i think can bring us progress, not just around the world, but right here at home. the best quote i've ever heard to summarize the thoughts that i've just given you about pulling people out of poverty is as follows: "free markets have created more wealth than any system in history. they have lifted billions out of poverty."who said it? it sounds like milton friedman or ronald reagan. wrong. president barack obama said that. why do i know it by heart? because he said it to me. crazy. and i said, "hallelujah." but more than that, i said, "what an opportunity."you know what i was thinking? it was at an event that we were doing on the subject at georgetown university in may of 2015. and i thought, this is the solution to the biggest problem facing america today. what? it's coming together around these ideas, liberals and conservatives, to help people who need us the most.now, i don't have to tell anybody in this room that we're in a crisis, in america and many countries around the world with political polarization. it's risen to critical, crisis levels. it's unpleasant. it's not right. there was an article last year in the proceedings of the national academy of sciences, which is one of the most prestigious scientific journals published in the west. and it was an article in 2014 on political motive asymmetry. what's that? that's what psychologists call the phenomenon of assuming that your ideology is based in love but your opponents' ideology is based in hate. it's common in world conflict. you expect to see this between palestinians and israelis, for example. what the authors of this article found was that in america today, a majority of republicans and democrats suffer from political motive asymmetry. a majority of people in our country today who are politically active believe that they are motivated by love but the other side is motivated by hate. think about it. think about it. most people are walking around saying, "you know, my ideology is based on basic benevolence, i want to help people, but the other guys, they're evil and out to get me." you can't progress as a society when you have this kind of asymmetry. it's impossible.how do we solve it? well, first, let's be honest: there are differences. let's not minimize the differences. that would be really naïve. there's a lot of good research on this. a veteran of the ted stage is my friend jonathan haidt. he's a psychology professor at new york university. he does work on the ideology and values and morals of different people to see how they differ. and he's shown, for example, that conservatives and liberals have a very different emphasis on what they think is important. for example, jon haidt has shown that liberals care about poverty 59 percent more than they care about economic liberty. and conservatives care about economic liberty 28 percent more than they care about poverty.irreconcilable differences, right? we'll never come together. wrong. that is diversity in which lies our strength. remember what pulled up the poor. it was the obsession with poverty, accompanied by the method of economic freedom spreading around the world. we need each other, in other words, if we want to help people and get the next two billion people out of poverty. there's no other way.hmm. how are we going to get that? it's a tricky thing, isn't it. we need innovative thinking. a lot of it's on this stage. social entrepreneurship. yeah. absolutely. phenomenal. we need investment overseas in a sustainable, responsible, ethical and moral way. yes. yes.but you know what we really need? we need a new day in flexible ideology. we need to be less predictable. don't we? do you ever feel like your own ideology is starting to get predictable? kinda conventional? do you ever feel like you're always listening to people who agree with you? why is that dangerous? because when we talk in this country about economics, on the right, conservatives, you're always talking about taxes and regulations and big government. and on the left, liberals, you're talking about economics, it's always about income inequality. right? now those are important things, really important to me, really important to you. but when it comes to lifting people up who are starving and need us today, those are distractions. we need to come together around the best ways to mitigate poverty using the best tools at our disposal, and that comes only when conservatives recognize that they need liberals and their obsession with poverty, and liberals need conservatives and their obsession with free markets. that's the diversity in which lies the future strength of this country, if we choose to take it.so how are we going to do it? how are we going to do it together? i've got to have some action items, not just for you but for me. number one. action item number one: remember, it's not good enough just to tolerate people who disagree. it's not good enough. we have to remember that we need people who disagree with us, because there are people who need all of us who are still waiting for these tools. now, what are you going to do? how are you going to express that? where does this start? it starts here. you know, all of us in this room, we're blessed. we're blessed with people who listen to us. we're blessed with prosperity. we're blessed with leadership. when people hear us, with the kind of unpredictable ideology, then maybe people will listen. maybe progress will start at that point. that's number one. number two. number two: i'm asking you and i'm asking me to be the person specifically who blurs the lines, who is ambiguous, who is hard to classify. if you're a conservative, be the conservative who is always going on about poverty and the moral obligation to be a warrior for the poor. and if you're a liberal, be a liberal who is always talking about the beauty of free markets to solve our problems when we use them responsibly.if we do that, we get two things. number one: we get to start to work on the next two billion and be the solution that we've seen so much of in the past and we need to see more of in the future. that's what we get. and the second is that we might just be able to take the ghastly holy war of ideology that we're suffering under in this country and turn it into a competition of ideas based on solidarity and mutual respect. and then maybe, just maybe, we'll all realize that our big differences aren't really that big after all.thank you. <title = "A glimpse of the future through an augmented reality headset">
<tags = "['Senses', 'augmented reality', 'brain', 'computers', 'creativity', 'cyborg', 'demo', 'design', 'engineering', 'entrepreneur', 'innovation', 'interface design', 'invention', 'neuroscience', 'potential', 'prediction', 'product design', 'technology', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Founder and CEO, Meta">
today's computers are so amazing that we fail to notice how terrible they really are. i'd like to talk to you today about this problem, and how we can fix it with neuroscience.first, i'd like to take you back to a frosty night in harlem in 2011 that had a profound impact on me. i was sitting in a dive bar outside of columbia university, where i studied computer science and neuroscience, and i was having this great conversation with a fellow student about the power of holograms to one day replace computers. and just as we were getting to the best part of the conversation, of course, his phone lights up. and he pulls it towards himself, and he looks down and he starts typing. and then he forces his eyeballs back up to mine and he goes, "keep going. i'm with you." but of course his eyes were glazed over, and the moment was dead.meanwhile across the bar, i noticed another student holding his phone, this time towards a group. he was swiping through pictures on instagram, and these kids were laughing hysterically. and that dichotomy between how crappy i was feeling and how happy they were feeling about the same technology, really got me thinking. and the more i thought of it, the more i realized it was clearly not the digital information that was the bad guy here, it was simply the display position that was separating me from my friend and that was binding those kids together.see, they were connected around something, just like our ancestors who evolved their social cognitions telling stories around the campfire. and that's exactly what tools should do, i think. they should extend our bodies. and i think computers today are doing quite the opposite. whether you're sending an email to your wife or you're composing a symphony or just consoling a friend, you're doing it in pretty much the same way. you're hunched over these rectangles, fumbling with buttons and menus and more rectangles. and i think this is the wrong way, i think we can start using a much more natural machine. we should use machines that bring our work back into the world. we should use machines that use the principles of neuroscience to extend our senses versus going against them.now it just so happens that i have such a machine here. it's called the meta 2. let's try it out. now in front of me right now, i can see the audience, and i can see my very hands. and in three, two, one, we're going to see an immersive hologram appear, a very realistic hologram appear in front of me, of our very glasses i'm wearing on my head right now. and of course this could be anything that we're shopping for or learning from, and i can use my hands to very nicely kind of move it around with fine control. and i think iron man would be proud. we're going to come back to this in just a bit. now if you're anything like me, your mind is already reeling with the possibilities of what we can do with this kind of technology, so let's look at a few.my mom is an architect, so naturally the first thing i imagined was laying out a building in 3d space instead of having to use these 2d floor plans. she's actually touching graphics right now and selecting an interior decor. this was all shot through a gopro through our very glasses.and this next use case is very personal to me, it's professor adam gazzaley's glass brain project, courtesy of ucsf. as a neuroscience student, i would always fantasize about the ability to learn and memorize these complex brain structures with an actual machine, where i could touch and play with the various brain structures.now what you're seeing is called augmented reality, but to me, it's part of a much more important story — a story of how we can begin to extend our bodies with digital devices, instead of the other way around.now ... in the next few years, humanity's going to go through a shift, i think. we're going to start putting an entire layer of digital information on the real world. just imagine for a moment what this could mean for storytellers, for painters, for brain surgeons, for interior decorators and maybe for all of us here today. and what i think we need to do as a community, is really try and make an effort to imagine how we can create this new reality in a way that extends the human experience, instead of gamifying our reality or cluttering it with digital information. and that's what i'm very passionate about.now, i want to tell you a little secret. in about five years — this is not the smallest device — in about five years, these are all going to look like strips of glass on our eyes that project holograms. and just like we don't care so much about which phone we buy in terms of the hardware — we buy it for the operating system — as a neuroscientist, i always dreamt of building the ios of the mind, if you will. and it's very, very important that we get this right, because we might be living inside of these things for at least as long as we've lived with the windows graphical user interface. and i don't know about you, but living inside of windows scares me. to isolate the single most intuitive interface out of infinity, we use neuroscience to drive our design guidelines, instead of letting a bunch of designers fight it out in the boardroom. and the principle we all revolve around is what's called the "neural path of least resistance."at every turn, we're connecting the ios of the brain with our brain on, for the first time, our brain's terms. in other words, we're trying to create a zero learning-curve computer. we're building a system that you've always known how to use.here are the first three design guidelines that we employ in this brand-new form of user experience. first and foremost, you are the operating system. traditional file systems are complex and abstract, and they take your brain extra steps to decode them. we're going against the neural path of least resistance. meanwhile, in augmented reality, you can of course place your holographic ted panel over here, and your holographic email on the other side of the desk, and your spatial memory evolved just fine to go ahead and retrieve them. you could put your holographic tesla that you're shopping for — or whatever model my legal team told me to put in right before the show. perfect. and your brain knows exactly how to get it back.the second interface guideline we call "touch to see." what do babies do when they see something that grabs their interest? they try and reach out and touch it. and that's exactly how the natural machine should work as well. turns out the visual system gets a fundamental boost from a sense we call proprioception — that's the sense of our body parts in space. so by touching our work directly, we're not only going to control it better, we're also going to understand it much more deeply. hence, touch to see.but it's not enough to experience things ourselves. we're inherently these social primates. and this leads me to our third guideline, the holographic campfire from our first story.our mirror-neuron subsystem suggests that we can connect with each other and with our work much better if we can see each other's faces and hands in 3d. so if you look at the video behind me, you can see two meta users playing around with the same hologram, making eye contact, connected around this thing, instead of being distracted by external devices.let's go ahead and try this again with neuroscience in mind. so again, our favorite interface, the ios of the mind. i'm going to now take a step further and go ahead and grab this pair of glasses and leave it right here by the desk. i'm now with you, i'm in the moment, we're connecting. my spatial memory kicks in, and i can go ahead and grab it and bring it right back here, reminding me that i am the operating system. and now my proprioception is working, and i can go ahead and explode these glasses into a thousand parts and touch the very sensor that is currently scanning my hand.but it's not enough to see things alone, so in a second, my co-founder ray is going to make a 3d call — ray?(ringing)hey ray, how's it going? guys, i can see this guy in front me in full 3d. and he is photo-realistic. thank you.my mirror-neuron subsystem suggests that this is going to replace phones in not too long. ray, how's it going?ray: great. we're live today. mg: ray, give the crowd a gift of the holographic brain we saw from the video earlier. guys, this is not only going to change phones, it's also going to change the way we collaborate.thank you so much.thanks, ray.ray: you're welcome. mg: so folks, this is the message that i discovered in that bar in 2011: the future of computers is not locked inside one of these screens. it's right here, inside of us. so if there's one idea that i could leave you with here today, it's that the natural machine is not some figment of the future, it's right here in 2016. which is why all hundred of us at meta, including the administrative staff, the executives, the designers, the engineers — before ted2017, we're all going to be throwing away our external monitors and replacing them with a truly and profoundly more natural machine.thank you very much. thank you, appreciate it. thanks, guys.chris anderson: so help me out on one thing, because there've been a few augmented reality demos shown over the last year or so out there. and there's sometimes a debate among technologists about, are we really seeing the real thing on-screen? there's this issue of field of view, that somehow the technology is showing a broader view than you would actually see wearing the glasses. were we seeing the real deal there?mg: absolutely the real deal. not only that, we took extra measures to shoot it with a gopro through the actual lens in the various videos that you've seen here. we want to try to simulate the experience for the world that we're actually seeing through the glasses, and not cut any corners.ca: thank you so much for showing us that.mg: thanks so much, i appreciate that.<title = "A prosecutor's vision for a better justice system">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'big problems', 'choice', 'compassion', 'decision-making', 'education', 'government', 'inequality', 'law', 'policy', 'race', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Juvenile justice reformer">
the following are my opinions, and do not reflect the opinions or policies of any particular prosecutor's office. i am a prosecutor. i believe in law and order. i am the adopted son of a police officer, a marine and a hairdresser. i believe in accountability and that we should all be safe in our communities. i love my job and the people that do it. i just think that it's our responsibility to do it better.by a show of hands, how many of you, by the age of 25, had either acted up in school, went somewhere you were specifically told to stay out of, or drank alcohol before your legal age? all right.how many of you shoplifted, tried an illegal drug or got into a physical fight — yes, even with a sibling? now, how many of you ever spent one day in jail for any of those decisions? how many of you sitting here today think that you're a danger to society or should be defined by those actions of youthful indiscretion? point taken.when we talk about criminal justice reform, we often focus on a few things, and that's what i want to talk to you about today. but first i'm going to — since you shared with me, i'm going to give you a confession on my part. i went to law school to make money. i had no interest in being a public servant, i had no interest in criminal law, and i definitely didn't think that i would ever be a prosecutor.near the end of my first year of law school, i got an internship in the roxbury division of boston municipal court. i knew of roxbury as an impoverished neighborhood in boston, plagued by gun violence and drug crime. my life and my legal career changed the first day of that internship. i walked into a courtroom, and i saw an auditorium of people who, one by one, would approach the front of that courtroom to say two words and two words only: "not guilty." they were predominately black and brown. and then a judge, a defense attorney and a prosecutor would make life-altering decisions about that person without their input. they were predominately white. as each person, one by one, approached the front of that courtroom, i couldn't stop but think: how did they get here? i wanted to know their stories. and as the prosecutor read the facts of each case, i was thinking to myself, we could have predicted that. that seems so preventable... not because i was an expert in criminal law, but because it was common sense.over the course of the internship, i began to recognize people in the auditorium, not because they were criminal masterminds but because they were coming to us for help and we were sending them out without any.my second year of law school i worked as a paralegal for a defense attorney, and in that experience i met many young men accused of murder. even in our "worst," i saw human stories. and they all contained childhood trauma, victimization, poverty, loss, disengagement from school, early interaction with the police and the criminal justice system, all leading to a seat in a courtroom. those convicted of murder were condemned to die in prison, and it was during those meetings with those men that i couldn't fathom why we would spend so much money to keep this one person in jail for the next 80 years when we could have reinvested it up front, and perhaps prevented the whole thing from happening in the first place. my third year of law school, i defended people accused of small street crimes, mostly mentally ill, mostly homeless, mostly drug-addicted, all in need of help. they would come to us, and we would send them away without that help. they were in need of our assistance. but we weren't giving them any. prosecuted, adjudged and defended by people who knew nothing about them.the staggering inefficiency is what drove me to criminal justice work. the unfairness of it all made me want to be a defender. the power dynamic that i came to understand made me become a prosecutor.i don't want to spend a lot of time talking about the problem. we know the criminal justice system needs reform, we know there are 2.3 million people in american jails and prisons, making us the most incarcerated nation on the planet. we know there's another seven million people on probation or parole, we know that the criminal justice system disproportionately affects people of color, particularly poor people of color. and we know there are system failures happening everywhere that bring people to our courtrooms. but what we do not discuss is how ill-equipped our prosecutors are to receive them. when we talk about criminal justice reform, we, as a society, focus on three things. we complain, we tweet, we protest about the police, about sentencing laws and about prison. we rarely, if ever, talk about the prosecutor.in the fall of 2009, a young man was arrested by the boston police department. he was 18 years old, he was african american and he was a senior at a local public school. he had his sights set on college but his part-time, minimum-wage job wasn't providing the financial opportunity he needed to enroll in school. in a series of bad decisions, he stole 30 laptops from a store and sold them on the internet. this led to his arrest and a criminal complaint of 30 felony charges. the potential jail time he faced is what stressed christopher out the most. but what he had little understanding of was the impact a criminal record would have on his future.i was standing in arraignments that day when christopher's case came across my desk. and at the risk of sounding dramatic, in that moment, i had christopher's life in my hands. i was 29 years old, a brand-new prosecutor, and i had little appreciation for how the decisions i would make would impact christopher's life. christopher's case was a serious one and it needed to be dealt with as such, but i didn't think branding him a felon for the rest of his life was the right answer.for the most part, prosecutors step onto the job with little appreciation of the impact of our decisions, regardless of our intent. despite our broad discretion, we learn to avoid risk at all cost, rendering our discretion basically useless. history has conditioned us to believe that somehow, the criminal justice system brings about accountability and improves public safety, despite evidence to the contrary. we're judged internally and externally by our convictions and our trial wins, so prosecutors aren't really incentivized to be creative at our case dispositions, or to take risks on people we might not otherwise. we stick to an outdated method, counterproductive to achieving the very goal that we all want, and that's safer communities.yet most prosecutors standing in my space would have arraigned christopher. they have little appreciation for what we can do. arraigning christopher would give him a criminal record, making it harder for him to get a job, setting in motion a cycle that defines the failing criminal justice system today. with a criminal record and without a job, christopher would be unable to find employment, education or stable housing. without those protective factors in his life, christopher would be more likely to commit further, more serious crime. the more contact christopher had with the criminal justice system, the more likely it would be that he would return again and again and again — all at tremendous social cost to his children, to his family and to his peers. and, ladies and gentlemen, it is a terrible public safety outcome for the rest of us.when i came out of law school, i did the same thing as everybody else. i came out as a prosecutor expected to do justice, but i never learned what justice was in my classes — none of us do. none of us do.and yet, prosecutors are the most powerful actors in the criminal justice system. our power is virtually boundless. in most cases, not the judge, not the police, not the legislature, not the mayor, not the governor, not the president can tell us how to prosecute our cases. the decision to arraign christopher and give him a criminal record was exclusively mine. i would choose whether to prosecute him for 30 felonies, for one felony, for a misdemeanor, or at all. i would choose whether to leverage christopher into a plea deal or take the case to trial, and ultimately, i would be in a position to ask for christopher to go to jail. these are decisions that prosecutors make every day unfettered, and we are unaware and untrained of the grave consequences of those decisions.one night this past summer, i was at a small gathering of professional men of color from around the city. as i stood there stuffing free finger sandwiches into my mouth, as you do as public servant — i noticed across the room, a young man waving and smiling at me and approaching me. and i recognized him, but i couldn't place from where, and before i knew it, this young man was hugging me. and thanking me. "you cared about me, and you changed my life." it was christopher.see, i never arraigned christopher. he never faced a judge or a jail, he never had a criminal record. instead, i worked with christopher; first on being accountable for his actions, and then, putting him in a position where he wouldn't re-offend. we recovered 75 percent of the computers that he sold and gave them back to best buy, and came up with a financial plan to repay for the computers we couldn't recover. christopher did community service. he wrote an essay reflecting on how this case could impact his future and that of the community. he applied to college, he obtained financial aid, and he went on to graduate from a four-year school. after we finished hugging, i looked at his name tag, to learn that christopher was the manager of a large bank in boston. christopher had accomplished — and making a lot more money than me — he had accomplished all of this in the six years since i had first seen him in roxbury court. i can't take credit for christopher's journey to success, but i certainly did my part to keep him on the path.there are thousands of christophers out there, some locked in our jails and prisons. we need thousands of prosecutors to recognize that and to protect them. an employed christopher is better for public safety than a condemned one. it's a bigger win for all of us. in retrospect, the decision not to throw the book at christopher makes perfect sense. when i saw him that first day in roxbury court, i didn't see a criminal standing there. i saw myself — a young person in need of intervention. as an individual caught selling a large quantity of drugs in my late teens, i knew firsthand the power of opportunity as opposed to the wrath of the criminal justice system. along the way, with the help and guidance of my district attorney, my supervisor and judges, i learned the power of the prosecutor to change lives instead of ruining them.and that's how we do it in boston. we helped a woman who was arrested for stealing groceries to feed her kids get a job. instead of putting an abused teenager in adult jail for punching another teenager, we secured mental health treatment and community supervision. a runaway girl who was arrested for prostituting, to survive on the streets, needed a safe place to live and grow — something we could help her with. i even helped a young man who was so afraid of the older gang kids showing up after school, that one morning instead of a lunchbox into his backpack, he put a loaded 9-millimeter. we would spend our time that we'd normally take prepping our cases for months and months for trial down the road by coming up with real solutions to the problems as they presented.which is the better way to spend our time? how would you prefer your prosecutors to spend theirs? why are we spending 80 billion dollars on a prison industry that we know is failing, when we could take that money and reallocate it into education, into mental health treatment, into substance abuse treatment and to community investment so we can develop our neighborhoods? so why should this matter to you? well, one, we're spending a lot of money. our money. it costs 109,000 dollars in some states to lock up a teenager for a year, with a 60 percent chance that that person will return to the very same system. that is a terrible return on investment.number two: it's the right thing to do. if prosecutors were a part of creating the problem, it's incumbent on us to create a solution and we can do that using other disciplines that have already done the data and research for us.and number three: your voice and your vote can make that happen. the next time there's a local district attorney's election in your jurisdiction, ask candidates these questions. one: what are you doing to make me and my neighbors safer? two: what data are you collecting, and how are you training your prosecutors to make sure that it's working? and number three: if it's not working for everybody, what are you doing to fix it? if they can't answer the questions, they shouldn't be doing the job.each one of you that raised your hand at the beginning of this talk is a living, breathing example of the power of opportunity, of intervention, of support and of love. while each of you may have faced your own brand of discipline for whatever malfeasances you committed, barely any of you needed a day in jail to make you the people that you are today — some of the greatest minds on the planet.every day, thousands of times a day, prosecutors around the united states wield power so great that it can bring about catastrophe as quickly as it can bring about opportunity, intervention, support and yes, even love. those qualities are the hallmarks of a strong community, and a strong community is a safe one. if our communities are broken, don't let the lawyers that you elect fix them with outdated, inefficient, expensive methods.demand more; vote for the prosecutor who's helping people stay out of jail, not putting them in.demand better. you deserve it, your children deserve it, the people who are tied up in the system deserve it, but most of all, the people that we are sworn to protect and do justice for demand it.we must, we must do better.thank you. thank you. thank you very much.<title = "How to get back to work after a career break">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'culture', 'economics', 'personal growth', 'success', 'work', 'work-life balance']">
<occupation = "CEO and co-founder, iRelaunch">
people returning to work after a career break: i call them relaunchers. these are people who have taken career breaks for elder care, for childcare reasons, pursuing a personal interest or a personal health issue. closely related are career transitioners of all kinds: veterans, military spouses, retirees coming out of retirement or repatriating expats. returning to work after a career break is hard because of a disconnect between the employers and the relaunchers. employers can view hiring people with a gap on their resume as a high-risk proposition, and individuals on career break can have doubts about their abilities to relaunch their careers, especially if they've been out for a long time. this disconnect is a problem that i'm trying to help solve.now, successful relaunchers are everywhere and in every field. this is sami kafala. he's a nuclear physicist in the uk who took a five-year career break to be home with his five children. the singapore press recently wrote about nurses returning to work after long career breaks. and speaking of long career breaks, this is mimi kahn. she's a social worker in orange county, california, who returned to work in a social services organization after a 25-year career break. that's the longest career break that i'm aware of. supreme court justice sandra day o'connor took a five-year career break early in her career.and this is tracy shapiro, who took a 13-year career break. tracy answered a call for essays by the today show from people who were trying to return to work but having a difficult time of it. tracy wrote in that she was a mom of five who loved her time at home, but she had gone through a divorce and needed to return to work, plus she really wanted to bring work back into her life because she loved working. tracy was doing what so many of us do when we feel like we've put in a good day in the job search. she was looking for a finance or accounting role, and she had just spent the last nine months very diligently researching companies online and applying for jobs with no results.i met tracy in june of 2011, when the today show asked me if i could work with her to see if i could help her turn things around. the first thing i told tracy was she had to get out of the house. i told her she had to go public with her job search and tell everyone she knew about her interest in returning to work. i also told her, "you are going to have a lot of conversations that don't go anywhere. expect that, and don't be discouraged by it. there will be a handful that ultimately lead to a job opportunity."i'll tell you what happened with tracy in a little bit, but i want to share with you a discovery that i made when i was returning to work after my own career break of 11 years out of the full-time workforce. and that is, that people's view of you is frozen in time. what i mean by this is, when you start to get in touch with people and you get back in touch with those people from the past, the people with whom you worked or went to school, they are going to remember you as you were before your career break. and that's even if your sense of self has diminished over time, as happens with so many of us the farther removed we are from our professional identities. so for example, you might think of yourself as someone who looks like this. this is me, crazy after a day of driving around in my minivan. or here i am in the kitchen. but those people from the past, they don't know about any of this. they only remember you as you were, and it's a great confidence boost to be back in touch with these people and hear their enthusiasm about your interest in returning to work.there's one more thing i remember vividly from my own career break. and that was that i hardly kept up with the business news. my background is in finance, and i hardly kept up with any news when i was home caring for my four young children. so i was afraid i'd go into an interview and start talking about a company that didn't exist anymore. so i had to resubscribe to the wall street journal and read it for a good six months cover to cover before i felt like i had a handle on what was going on in the business world again.i believe relaunchers are a gem of the workforce, and here's why. think about our life stage: for those of us who took career breaks for childcare reasons, we have fewer or no maternity leaves. we did that already. we have fewer spousal or partner job relocations. we're in a more settled time of life. we have great work experience. we have a more mature perspective. we're not trying to find ourselves at an employer's expense. plus we have an energy, an enthusiasm about returning to work precisely because we've been away from it for a while.on the flip side, i speak with employers, and here are two concerns that employers have about hiring relaunchers.the first one is, employers are worried that relaunchers are technologically obsolete. now, i can tell you, having been technologically obsolete myself at one point, that it's a temporary condition. i had done my financial analysis so long ago that i used lotus 1-2-3. i don't know if anyone can even remember back that far, but i had to relearn it on excel. it actually wasn't that hard. a lot of the commands are the same. i found powerpoint much more challenging, but now i use powerpoint all the time. i tell relaunchers that employers expect them to come to the table with a working knowledge of basic office management software. and if they're not up to speed, then it's their responsibility to get there. and they do.the second area of concern that employers have about relaunchers is they're worried that relaunchers don't know what they want to do. i tell relaunchers that they need to do the hard work to figure out whether their interests and skills have changed or have not changed while they have been on career break. that's not the employer's job. it's the relauncher's responsibility to demonstrate to the employer where they can add the most value.back in 2010 i started noticing something. i had been tracking return to work programs since 2008, and in 2010, i started noticing the use of a short-term paid work opportunity, whether it was called an internship or not, but an internship-like experience, as a way for professionals to return to work. i saw goldman sachs and sara lee start corporate reentry internship programs. i saw a returning engineer, a nontraditional reentry candidate, apply for an entry-level internship program in the military, and then get a permanent job afterward. i saw two universities integrate internships into mid-career executive education programs.so i wrote a report about what i was seeing, and it became this article for harvard business review called "the 40-year-old intern." i have to thank the editors there for that title, and also for this artwork where you can see the 40-year-old intern in the midst of all the college interns. and then, courtesy of fox business news, they called the concept "the 50-year-old intern." so five of the biggest financial services companies have reentry internship programs for returning finance professionals. and at this point, hundreds of people have participated. these internships are paid, and the people who move on to permanent roles are commanding competitive salaries. and now, seven of the biggest engineering companies are piloting reentry internship programs for returning engineers as part of an initiative with the society of women engineers. now, why are companies embracing the reentry internship? because the internship allows the employer to base their hiring decision on an actual work sample instead of a series of interviews, and the employer does not have to make that permanent hiring decision until the internship period is over. this testing out period removes the perceived risk that some managers attach to hiring relaunchers, and they are attracting excellent candidates who are turning into great hires.think about how far we have come. before this, most employers were not interested in engaging with relaunchers at all. but now, not only are programs being developed specifically with relaunchers in mind, but you can't even apply for these programs unless you have a gap on your résumé.this is the mark of real change, of true institutional shift, because if we can solve this problem for relaunchers, we can solve it for other career transitioners too. in fact, an employer just told me that their veterans return to work program is based on their reentry internship program. and there's no reason why there can't be a retiree internship program. different pool, same concept.so let me tell you what happened with tracy shapiro. remember that she had to tell everyone she knew about her interest in returning to work. well, one critical conversation with another parent in her community led to a job offer for tracy, and it was an accounting job in a finance department. but it was a temp job. the company told her there was a possibility it could turn into something more, but no guarantees. this was in the fall of 2011. tracy loved this company, and she loved the people and the office was less than 10 minutes from her house. so even though she had a second job offer at another company for a permanent full-time role, she decided to take her chances with this internship and hope for the best. well, she ended up blowing away all of their expectations, and the company not only made her a permanent offer at the beginning of 2012, but they made it even more interesting and challenging, because they knew what tracy could handle.fast forward to 2015, tracy's been promoted. they've paid for her to get her mba at night. she's even hired another relauncher to work for her. tracy's temp job was a tryout, just like an internship, and it ended up being a win for both tracy and her employer.now, my goal is to bring the reentry internship concept to more and more employers. but in the meantime, if you are returning to work after a career break, don't hesitate to suggest an internship or an internship-like arrangement to an employer that does not have a formal reentry internship program. be their first success story, and you can be the example for more relaunchers to come.thank you. <title = "You have no idea where camels really come from">
<tags = "['ancient world', 'animals', 'biology', 'curiosity', 'ecology', 'environment', 'evolution', 'history', 'life', 'nature', 'paleontology', 'science']">
<occupation = "Radio researcher">
so, this is a story about how we know what we know.it's a story about this woman, natalia rybczynski. she's a paleobiologist, which means she specializes in digging up really old dead stuff.(audio) natalia rybczynski: yeah, i had someone call me "dr. dead things."latif nasser: and i think she's particularly interesting because of where she digs that stuff up, way above the arctic circle in the remote canadian tundra.now, one summer day in 2006, she was at a dig site called the fyles leaf bed, which is less than 10 degrees latitude away from the magnetic north pole.(audio) nr: really, it's not going to sound very exciting, because it was a day of walking with your backpack and your gps and notebook and just picking up anything that might be a fossil.ln: and at some point, she noticed something.(audio) nr: rusty, kind of rust-colored, about the size of the palm of my hand. it was just lying on the surface.ln: and at first she thought it was just a splinter of wood, because that's the sort of thing people had found at the fyles leaf bed before — prehistoric plant parts. but that night, back at camp ...(audio) nr: ... i get out the hand lens, i'm looking a little bit more closely and realizing it doesn't quite look like this has tree rings. maybe it's a preservation thing, but it looks really like ... bone.ln: huh. so over the next four years, she went to that spot over and over, and eventually collected 30 fragments of that exact same bone, most of them really tiny.(audio) nr: it's not a whole lot. it fits in a small ziploc bag.ln: and she tried to piece them together like a jigsaw puzzle. but it was challenging.(audio) nr: it's broken up into so many little tiny pieces, i'm trying to use sand and putty, and it's not looking good. so finally, we used a 3d surface scanner.ln: ooh! nr: yeah, right? ln: it turns out it was way easier to do it virtually.(audio) nr: it's kind of magical when it all fits together.ln: how certain were you that you had it right, that you had put it together in the right way? was there a potential that you'd put it together a different way and have, like, a parakeet or something? (audio) nr: (laughs) um, no. no, we got this.ln: what she had, she discovered, was a tibia, a leg bone, and specifically, one that belonged to a cloven-hoofed mammal, so something like a cow or a sheep. but it couldn't have been either of those. it was just too big.(audio) nr: the size of this thing, it was huge. it's a really big animal.ln: so what animal could it be? having hit a wall, she showed one of the fragments to some colleagues of hers in colorado, and they had an idea.(audio) nr: we took a saw, and we nicked just the edge of it, and there was this really interesting smell that comes from it.ln: it smelled kind of like singed flesh. it was a smell that natalia recognized from cutting up skulls in her gross anatomy lab: collagen. collagen is what gives structure to our bones. and usually, after so many years, it breaks down. but in this case, the arctic had acted like a natural freezer and preserved it.then a year or two later, natalia was at a conference in bristol, and she saw that a colleague of hers named mike buckley was demoing this new process that he called "collagen fingerprinting." it turns out that different species have slightly different structures of collagen, so if you get a collagen profile of an unknown bone, you can compare it to those of known species, and, who knows, maybe you get a match.so she shipped him one of the fragments, fedex.(audio) nr: yeah, you want to track it. it's kind of important. ln: and he processed it, and compared it to 37 known and modern-day mammal species. and he found a match. it turns out that the 3.5 million-year-old bone that natalia had dug out of the high arctic belonged to ... a camel. (audio) nr: and i'm thinking, what? that's amazing — if it's true.ln: so they tested a bunch of the fragments, and they got the same result for each one. however, based on the size of the bone that they found, it meant that this camel was 30 percent larger than modern-day camels. so this camel would have been about nine feet tall, weighed around a ton.(audience reacts)yeah. natalia had found a giant arctic camel. now, when you hear the word "camel," what may come to mind is one of these, the bactrian camel of east and central asia. but chances are the postcard image you have in your brain is one of these, the dromedary, quintessential desert creature — hangs out in sandy, hot places like the middle east and the sahara, has a big old hump on its back for storing water for those long desert treks, has big, broad feet to help it tromp over sand dunes. so how on earth would one of these guys end up in the high arctic?well, scientists have known for a long time, turns out, even before natalia's discovery, that camels are actually originally american.(music: the star-spangled banner) they started here. for nearly 40 of the 45 million years that camels have been around, you could only find them in north america, around 20 different species, maybe more.(audio) ln: if i put them all in a lineup, would they look different?nr: yeah, you're going to have different body sizes. you'll have some with really long necks, so they're actually functionally like giraffes.ln: some had snouts, like crocodiles.(audio) nr: the really primitive, early ones would have been really small, almost like rabbits.ln: what? rabbit-sized camels?(audio) nr: the earliest ones. so those ones you probably would not recognize.ln: oh my god, i want a pet rabbit-camel.(audio) nr: i know, wouldn't that be great? ln: and then about three to seven million years ago, one branch of camels went down to south america, where they became llamas and alpacas, and another branch crossed over the bering land bridge into asia and africa. and then around the end of the last ice age, north american camels went extinct.so, scientists knew all of that already, but it still doesn't fully explain how natalia found one so far north. like, this is, temperature-wise, the polar opposite of the sahara. now to be fair, three and a half million years ago, it was on average 22 degrees celsius warmer than it is now. so it would have been boreal forest, so more like the yukon or siberia today. but still, like, they would have six-month-long winters where the ponds would freeze over. you'd have blizzards. you'd have 24 hours a day of straight darkness. like, how ... how? how is it that one of these saharan superstars could ever have survived those arctic conditions? natalia and her colleagues think they have an answer. and it's kind of brilliant. what if the very features that we imagine make the camel so well-suited to places like the sahara, actually evolved to help it get through the winter? what if those broad feet were meant to tromp not over sand, but over snow, like a pair of snowshoes? what if that hump — which, huge news to me, does not contain water, it contains fat — was there to help the camel get through that six-month-long winter, when food was scarce? and then, only later, long after it crossed over the land bridge did it retrofit those winter features for a hot desert environment? like, for instance, the hump may be helpful to camels in hotter climes because having all your fat in one place, like a, you know, fat backpack, means that you don't have to have that insulation all over the rest of your body. so it helps heat dissipate easier. it's this crazy idea, that what seems like proof of the camel's quintessential desert nature could actually be proof of its high arctic past.now, i'm not the first person to tell this story. others have told it as a way to marvel at evolutionary biology or as a keyhole into the future of climate change. but i love it for a totally different reason. for me, it's a story about us, about how we see the world and about how that changes.so i was trained as a historian. and i've learned that, actually, a lot of scientists are historians, too. they make sense of the past. they tell the history of our universe, of our planet, of life on this planet. and as a historian, you start with an idea in your mind of how the story goes.(audio) nr: we make up stories and we stick with it, like the camel in the desert, right? that's a great story! it's totally adapted for that. clearly, it always lived there.ln: but at any moment, you could uncover some tiny bit of evidence. you could learn some tiny thing that forces you to reframe everything you thought you knew. like, in this case, this one scientist finds this one shard of what she thought was wood, and because of that, science has a totally new and totally counterintuitive theory about why this absurd dr. seuss-looking creature looks the way it does. and for me, it completely upended the way i think of the camel. it went from being this ridiculously niche creature suited only to this one specific environment, to being this world traveler that just happens to be in the sahara, and could end up virtually anywhere. this is azuri. azuri, hi, how are you doing? ok, here, i've got one of these for you here. so azuri is on a break from her regular gig at the radio city music hall. that's not even a joke. anyway —but really, azuri is here as a living reminder that the story of our world is a dynamic one. it requires our willingness to readjust, to reimagine. right, azuri?and, really, that we're all just one shard of bone away from seeing the world anew.thank you very much. <title = "How young Africans found a voice on Twitter">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Internet', 'community', 'democracy', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'identity', 'politics', 'potential']">
<occupation = "Writer">
it began with one question: if africa was a bar, what would your country be drinking or doing? i kicked it off with a guess about south africa, which wasn't exactly according to the rules because south africa's not my country. but alluding to the country's continual attempts to build a postracial society after being ravaged for decades by apartheid, i tweeted, #ifafricawasabar south africa would be drinking all kinds of alcohol and begging them to get along in its stomach.and then i waited. and then i had that funny feeling where i wondered if i crossed the line. so, i sent out a few other tweets about my own country and a few other african countries i'm familiar with. and then i waited again, but this time i read through almost every tweet i had ever tweeted to convince myself, no, to remind myself that i'm really funny and that if nobody gets it, that's fine.but luckily, i didn't have to do that for very long. very soon, people were participating. in fact, by the end of that week in july, the hashtag #ifafricawasabar would have garnered around 60,000 tweets, lit up the continent and made its way to publications all over the world.people were using the hashtag to do many different things. to poke fun at their stereotypes: [#ifafricawasabar nigeria would be outside explaining that he will pay the entrance fee, all he needs is the bouncer's account details.] to criticize government spending: [#ifafricawasabar south africa would be ordering bottles it can't pronounce running a tab it won't be able to pay]to make light of geopolitical tensions: [#ifafricawasabar south sudan would be the new guy with serious anger management issues.]to remind us that even in africa there are some countries we don't know exist: [#ifafricawasabar lesotho would be that person who nobody really knows but is always in the pictures.]and also to make fun of the countries that don't think that they're in africa: [#ifafricawasabar egypt, libya, tunisia, algeria and morocco be like "what the hell are we doing here?!!"] and to note the countries that had made a big turnaround: [#ifafricawasabar rwanda would be that girl that comes with no money and no transport but leaves drunk, happy and rich]but most importantly, people were using the hashtag to connect. people were connecting over their africanness. so for one week in july, twitter became a real african bar. and i was really thrilled, mainly because i realized that pan-africanism could work, that we had before us, between us, at our fingertips a platform that just needed a small spark to light in us a hunger for each other.my name is siyanda mohutsiwa, i'm 22 years old and i am pan-africanist by birth. now, i say i'm pan-africanist by birth because my parents are from two different african countries. my father's from a country called botswana in southern africa. it's only slightly bigger than germany. this year we celebrate our 50th year of stable democracy. and it has some very progressive social policies. my mother's country is the kingdom of swaziland. it's a very, very small country, also in southern africa. it is africa's last complete monarchy. so it's been ruled by a king and a royal family in line with their tradition, for a very long time.on paper, these countries seem very different. and when i was a kid, i could see the difference. it rained a lot in one country, it didn't rain quite as much in the other. but outside of that, i didn't really realize why it mattered that my parents were from two different places. but it would go on to have a very peculiar effect on me. you see, i was born in one country and raised in the other.when we moved to botswana, i was a toddler who spoke fluent siswati and nothing else. so i was being introduced to my new home, my new cultural identity, as a complete outsider, incapable of comprehending anything that was being said to me by the family and country whose traditions i was meant to move forward. but very soon, i would shed siswati. and when i would go back to swaziland, i would be constantly confronted by how very non-swazi i was becoming.add to that my entry into africa's private school system, whose entire purpose is to beat the africanness out of you, and i would have a very peculiar adolescence. but i think that my interest in ideas of identity was born here, in the strange intersection of belonging to two places at once but not really belonging to either one very well and belonging to this vast space in between and around simultaneously. i became obsessed with the idea of a shared african identity.since then, i have continued to read about politics and geography and identity and what all those things mean. i've also held on to a deep curiosity about african philosophies. when i began to read, i gravitated towards the works of black intellectuals like steve biko and frantz fanon, who tackled complex ideas like decolonization and black consciousness. and when i thought, at 14, that i had digested these grand ideas, i moved on to the speeches of iconic african statesmen like burkina faso's thomas sankara and congo's patrice lumumba. i read every piece of african fiction that i could get my hands on.so when twitter came, i hopped on with the enthusiasm of a teenage girl whose friends are super, super bored of hearing about all this random stuff.the year was 2011 and all over southern africa and the whole continent, affordable data packages for smartphones and internet surfing became much easier to get. so my generation, we were sending messages to each other on this platform that just needed 140 characters and a little bit of creativity. on long commutes to work, in lectures that some of us should have been paying attention to, on our lunch breaks, we would communicate as much as we could about the everyday realities of being young and african.but of course, this luxury was not available to everybody. so this meant that if you were a teenage girl in botswana and you wanted to have fun on the internet, one, you had to tweet in english. two, you had to follow more than just the three other people you knew online. you had to follow south africans, zimbabweans, ghanaians, nigerians. and suddenly, your whole world opened up. and my whole world did open up.i followed vibrant africans who were travelling around the continent, taking pictures of themselves and posting them under the hashtag #myafrica. because at that time, if you were to search africa on twitter or on google or any kind of social media, you would think that the entire continent was just pictures of animals and white guys drinking cocktails in hotel resorts. but africans were using this platform to take some kind of ownership of the tourism sectors. it was africans taking selfies on the beaches of nigeria. it was africans in cocktail bars in nairobi.and these were the same africans that i began to meet in my own travels around the continent. we would discuss african literature, politics, economic policy. but almost invariably, every single time, we would end up discussing twitter. and that's when i realized what this was. we were standing in the middle of something amazing, because for the first time ever young africans could discuss the future of our continent in real time, without the restriction of borders, finances and watchful governments.because the little known truth is many africans know a lot less about other african countries than some westerners might know about africa as a whole. this is by accident, but sometimes, it's by design. for example, in apartheid south africa, black south africans were constantly being bombarded with this message that any country ruled by black people was destined for failure. and this was done to convince them that they were much better off under crushing white rule than they were living in a black and free nation. add to that africa's colonial, archaic education system, which has been unthinkingly carried over from the 1920s — and at the age of 15, i could name all the various causes of the wars that had happened in europe in the past 200 years, but i couldn't name the president of my neighboring country. and to me, this doesn't make any sense because whether we like it or not, the fates of african people are deeply intertwined.when disaster hits, when turmoil hits, we share the consequences. when burundians flee political turmoil, they go to us, to other african countries. africa has six of the world's largest refugee centers. what was once a burundian problem becomes an african problem. so to me, there are no sudanese problems or south african problems or kenyan problems, only african problems because eventually, we share the turmoil.so if we share the problems, why aren't we doing a better job of sharing the successes? how can we do that? well, in the long term, we can shoot towards increasing inter-african trade, removing borders and putting pressure on leaders to fulfill regional agreements they've already signed. but i think that the biggest way for africa to share its successes is to foster something i like to call social pan-africanism.now, political pan-africanism already exists, so i'm not inventing anything totally new here. but political pan-africanism is usually the african unity of the political elite. and who does that benefit? well, african leaders, almost exclusively. no, what i'm talking about is the pan-africanism of the ordinary african. young africans like me, we are bursting with creative energy, with innovative ideas. but with bad governance and shaky institutions, all of this potential could go to waste. on a continent where more than a handful of leaders have been in power longer than the majority of the populations has been alive, we are in desperate need of something new, something that works. and i think that thing is social pan-africanism.my dream is that young africans stop allowing borders and circumstance to suffocate our innovation. my dream is that when a young african comes up with something brilliant, they don't say, "well, this wouldn't work in my country," and then give up. my dream is that young africans begin to realize that the entire continent is our canvas, is our home. using the internet, we can begin to think collaboratively, we can begin to innovate together. in africa, we say, "if you want to go fast, you go alone, but if you want to go far, you go together." and i believe that social pan-africanism is how we can go far together.and this is already happening. access to these online networks has given young africans something we've always had to violently take: a voice. we now have a platform. before now, if you wanted to hear from the youth in africa, you waited for the 65-year-old minister of youth — to wake up in the morning, take his heartburn medication and then tell you the plans he has for your generation in 20 years time. before now, if you wanted to be heard by your possibly tyrannical government, you were pushed to protest, suffer the consequences and have your fingers crossed that some western paper somewhere might make someone care. but now we have opportunities to back each other up in ways we never could before.we support south african students who are marching against ridiculously high tertiary fees. we support zimbabwean women who are marching to parliament. we support angolan journalists who are being illegally detained. for the first time ever, african pain and african aspiration has the ability to be witnessed by those who can empathize with it the most: other africans.i believe that with a social pan-africanist thinking and using the internet as a tool, we can begin to rescue each other, and ultimately, to rescue ourselves.thank you. <title = "A futuristic vision of the age of holograms">
<tags = "['NASA', 'communication', 'computers', 'creativity', 'design', 'engineering', 'exploration', 'future', 'innovation', 'interface design', 'invention', 'microsoft', 'potential', 'prediction', 'product design', 'technology', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Inventor">
thousands of years from now, we'll look back at the first century of computing as a fascinating but very peculiar time — the only time in history where humans were reduced to live in 2d space, interacting with technology as if we were machines; a singular, 100-year period in the vastness of time where humans communicated, were entertained and managed their lives from behind a screen.today, we spend most of our time tapping and looking at screens. what happened to interacting with each other? i don't know about you, but i feel limited inside this 2d world of monitors and pixels. and it is this very limitation and my desire to connect with people that inspires me as a creator. put simply: i want to create a new reality, a reality where technology brings us infinitely closer to each other, a reality where people, not devices, are the center of everything.i dream of a reality where technology senses what we see, touch and feel; a reality where technology no longer gets in our way, but instead embraces who we are. i dream of technology on a human path. we have all experienced technology that enables people to act more like people, products that enable natural interactions, voice controls or biometrics.this is the next step in the evolution. this is microsoft hololens, the first fully untethered holographic computer. devices like this will bring 3d holographic content right into our world, enhancing the way we experience life beyond our ordinary range of perceptions. now, i'm not thinking about a distant future. i'm talking about today. we are already seeing car companies like volvo designing cars differently with hololens; universities like case western redefining the way medical students learn; and my personal favorite, nasa is using hololens to let scientists explore planets holographically.now, this is important. by bringing holograms into our world, i'm not just talking about a new device or a better computer. i'm talking about freeing ourselves from the 2d confines of traditional computing.put it this way: temporally adjusted, we're like cave people in computer terms. we've barely discovered charcoal and started drawing the first stick figures in our cave. now, this is the perspective i apply to my work every single day. and now for the next few minutes, i invite all of you to apply the same perspective to the journey ahead of us.now, as i put this hololens on, let me explain the setup a little bit. it's probably the most risky demo we have ever done on any stage with hololens, and i can't think of a better place to do it than here at ted. momentarily, i am going to be seeing holograms right on this stage, just as clearly as i can see all of you. now at the same time, we have also this special camera that just walked in onstage so that all of you can share in this experience with me up on all the monitors.so let's start our journey. and what better place to begin our journey, than in the computer cave of 2d. let's explore the world all around us with this new lens, and understand the computer world from a brand new perspective.the computer universe is both marvelous and primitive. it's a universe based on causality. as developers, we dream the different causes and then we program the different effects. double click on an icon, that's a cause. open an application, that's an effect. now when we compare this to our physical universe, it is overly constraining, because our universe is not digital. our universe is analog. our universe doesn't think in terms of zero or one, true or false, or black or white. we exist in a world governed by quantum physics, a universe of zero and one both at the same time, a reality based on infinite probabilities and shades of gray. you can see how these two worlds collide.so why are screens so pervasive in our analog life? we see screens from the moment we wake up, to the moment we fall asleep. why?i think it's because computers give us superpowers. within the digital universe, we have the power to displace space and the power to displace time. it doesn't matter if you're using technology for entertainment, productivity or communication. think of it this way: let's all go home tonight and watch our favorite show on television. this is theater — time and space displaced. as soon as i'm done with this ted talk, i'm going to immediately call my lovely family in seattle. that's displacement of space. now, these are such great superpowers that we put up with the two-dimensional limitations of our current digital world. but what if we didn't have to? what if we could have these same digital powers in our world? you can already see glimmers of this, but i believe our children's children will grow up in a world devoid of 2d technology. it's remarkable to dream of this world, a world where technology truly understands us — where we live, work and communicate — with tools that enhance the human experience, not machines that limit our humanity.so how do we get there? for me, the answer required looking at the problem from a different perspective. it required sensing the world from the perspective of a machine. if you're a machine trying to sense our world, how would you actually break the problem down? you'd probably try to classify things as a human, an environment or an object. but how would that machine then interact with reality? and i can think of three ways.first, as a machine, i would observe or i would input reality. speech recognition and biometric authentication are great examples of a machine interacting with humans from an input perspective. secondly, as a machine, i could place digital information, or output information, into reality. holograms are examples of a machine interacting with an environment from an output perspective. finally, as a machine, i could exchange energy with the world via haptics. now, imagine being able to feel the temperature of a virtual object, or better yet, imagine pushing a hologram and having it push you back with equal force.with this perspective, we are able to collapse reality into a simple matrix. now here's a secret: as an engineer, i get really excited anytime i can reduce something to the matrix. from self-driving cars to smartphones to this holographic computer on my head, machines are becoming capable of understanding our world. and they are starting to interact with us in significantly more personal ways.now, imagine having granular control over everything in the world. move the dial one way, and you get reality. move the dial the other way, and you get virtual reality. now, imagine dialing your entire environment between virtual and real worlds. i love it down here. now, imagine if i could look at all of you and dial from real humans into elves. when technology truly understands our world, it will again transform the ways we interact, the ways we work and the ways we play.less than half a century ago, two courageous men landed on the moon, using computers that were less powerful than the phones in your pockets. six hundred million humans watched them on grainy, black-and-white televisions. and the world? the world was mesmerized.now imagine how our children and their children will experience the continued exploration of space with technology that understands this world. we already live in a world where real-time universal translators exist. and i can squint, and i can already see holographic telepresence in our near future. in fact, since we've been lucky with our demo so far, let's try doing something else even more crazy. i invite you to experience, for the first time anywhere in the world, here on the ted stage, a real-life holographic teleportation, between me and my friend, dr. jeffrey norris, from nasa's jet propulsion laboratory.finger crossed. hi, jeff.jeff norris: hey, alex.alex kipman: phew! that worked. how are you doing today, jeff? jn: doing great. i had an awesome week.ak: so, can you tell us a little bit, jeff, about where you are?jn: well, i'm actually in three places. i'm standing in a room across the street, while i'm standing on this stage with you, while i'm standing on mars, a hundred million miles away.ak: wow, a hundred million miles away. this is crazy! can you tell us a little bit more about where all this data from mars is coming from?jn: absolutely. this is a precise holographic replica of mars, built from data captured by the curiosity mars rover, that i can explore as easily as a place on earth. humans are natural explorers. we can instantly understand an environment, just by being present in it. we've built tools like our mars rover to extend our vision and lengthen our reach. but for decades, we've explored from a seat behind screens and keyboards. now, we're leaping over all of that, over the giant antennas and the relay satellites and the vastness between worlds to take our first steps on this landscape as if we were truly there. today, a group of scientists on our mission are seeing mars as never before — an alien world made a little more familiar, because they're finally exploring it as humans should.but our dreams don't have to end with making it just like being there. when we dial this real world to the virtual, we can do magical things. we can see in invisible wavelengths or teleport to the top of a mountain. perhaps someday, we'll feel the minerals in a rock just by touching it. we're taking the first steps. but we want the whole world to join us in taking the next, because this is not a journey for a few, but for all of us.ak: thank you jeff, this was amazing. thank you so much for joining us on the ted stage today. jn: thank you alex, bye bye.ak: bye, jeff. i dream about this future every single day. i take inspiration from our ancestors. we used to live in tribes where we interacted, communicated and worked together. we are all beginning to build technology that will enable us to return to the humanity that brought us where we are today — technology that will let us stop living inside this 2d world of monitors and pixels, and let us start remembering what it feels like to live in our 3d world. it's a phenomenal time to be human.thank you. helen walters: thanks so much. i have some questions.ak: ok.hw: so there's been some talk in the press. and i'll just ask you straight, then we have a straight answer. there's been talk about the difference between the demos and the reality of the commercial product. talk about this field of view issue. is this type of experience what someone who buys the product will get?ak: it's a great question, or, said better, this is a question we've been receiving in the media for possibly the last year. if you do your research, i haven't answered that question. i've purposely ignored it, because ultimately, it's the wrong question to ask. that's the equivalent of me showing holograms to someone for the first time, and you then saying, "what's the size of your television?" the field of view for the product is almost irrelevant. what we should be talking about is the density of lights, or radiance, that shows up. better said, what the angular resolution is of the things that you see. so from that perspective, what you saw — you know, the camera is wearing a hololens. so even if i wanted to cheat, i can't.hw: but the camera has a different lens on it than our eye. right?ak: the camera has a fish-eye lens on it. it's seeing a much wider view than the human eye is. so if you think about the points of light that show up radially from the vision of the camera, which is the thing that matters: how many points of light can i get in a given volume? that's the same as i get on this hololens as i will on that one. now, this camera sees a much wider view of the world, right?hw: jesus christ! ak: he did show up! i told you he'd show up. come this way. hw: oh, shit.ak: and there's holographic jeff norris.hw: i knew something was happening, but i really wasn't sure what.ak: so in short: to be super crisp, the camera that you see on the screen has a wider field of view than the human eye. but the angular resolution of the holograms that you see, the points of light per unit of area, are actually the same.hw: so you spent — jeff, i'll get to you in a minute — so you spent a lot of time mapping the stage —ak: that's right.hw: so help me out here: if i buy a hololens and have it at home, i don't need to map my apartment, right?ak: the hololens maps in real time at about five frames per second, with this technology that we call spatial mapping. so in your home, as soon as you put it on, holograms will start showing up, and you'll start placing them and they'll start learning your home. in a stage environment where we're trying to get something on my head to communicate with something over there with all of the wireless connectivity that usually brings all conferences down, we don't take the risk of trying to do this live. so what we do is pre-map the stage at five frames per second with the same spatial-mapping technology that you'll use with the product at home, and then we store it, so that when there's shenanigans of wireless in an environment like this, between the camera's hololens and the one on my head, we don't have things disappear. because ultimately, the holograms are coming from this hololens, and that one is just viewing the hololens. so if i lose connectivity, you would stop seeing beautiful things on the screen.hw: and it was beautiful. um ... jeff?jn: yes?hw: hi.ak: i'll take a step back.hw: so jeff, you were on mars, you were here, you were in a room across the street. tell me more about the fact that, with holograms, you have sight but you don't have touch, you don't have smell. is this scientifically useful now? that's my question for a hologram.jn: thanks for the question. absolutely, i believe that these technologies are scientifically useful right now, and that's why we're using them in multiple parts of our work at nasa. so we're using it to improve the ways that we explore mars. we're also using it for our astronauts on the space station. we're even using it now to design the next generation of our spacecraft.hw: amazing. ok, jeff, please go away. thank you very much. alex, really, that was amazing. thank you so much.ak: thank you.hw: thank you. thank you. <title = "The beauty of human skin in every color">
<tags = "['Brazil', 'Slavery', 'art', 'beauty', 'community', 'creativity', 'culture', 'design', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'identity', 'photography', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Artist and photographer">
it has been 128 years since the last country in the world abolished slavery and 53 years since martin luther king pronounced his "i have a dream" speech. but we still live in a world where the color of our skin not only gives a first impression, but a lasting one that remains.i was born in a family full of colors. my father is the son of a maid from whom he inherited an intense dark chocolate tone. he was adopted by those who i know as my grandparents. the matriarch, my grandma, has a porcelain skin and cotton-like hair. my grandpa was somewhere between a vanilla and strawberry yogurt tone, like my uncle and my cousin. my mother is a cinnamon-skin daughter of a native brazilian, with a pinch of hazel and honey, and a man [who is] a mix of coffee with milk, but with a lot of coffee. she has two sisters. one in a toasted-peanut skin and the other, also adopted, more on the beige side, like a pancake. growing up in this family, color was never important for me. outside home, however, things were different soon. color had many other meanings.i remember my first drawing lessons in school as a bunch of contradictory feelings. it was exciting and creative but i never understood the unique flesh-colored pencil. i was made of flesh but i wasn't pink. my skin was brown, and people said i was black. i was seven years old with a mess of colors in my head.later, when i took my cousin to school, i was usually taken for the nanny. by helping in the kitchen at a friend's party, people thought i was the maid. i was even treated like a prostitute just because i was walking alone on the beach with european friends. and many times, visiting my grandma or friends in upper class buildings, i was invited not to use the main elevator. because in the end, with this color and this hair, i cannot belong to some places.in some way, i get to used to it and accept part of it. however, something inside of me keeps revolving and struggling.years later i married a spaniard. but not any spaniard. i chose one with the skin color of a lobster when sunburnt. since then, a new question started to chase me. what will be the color of your children? as you can understand, this is my last concern. but thinking about it, with my previous background, my story led me to make my personal exercise as a photographer. and that is how humanae was born.humanae is a pursuit to highlight our true colors, rather than the untrue white, red, black or yellow associated with race. it's a kind of game to question our codes. it's a work in progress from a personal story to a global history.i portray the subjects in a white background. then i choose an 11-pixel square from the nose, paint the background, and look for the corresponding color in the industrial palette, pantone.i started with my family and friends, then more and more people joined the adventure, thanks to public calls coming through the social media.i thought that the main space to show my work was the internet because i want an open concept that invites everybody to push the share button in both the computer and their brain.the snowball started to roll. the project had a great welcome — invitations, exhibitions, physical formats, galleries and museums ... just happened. and among them, my favorite: when humanae occupies public spaces and appears in the street, it fosters a popular debate and creates a feeling of community.i have portrayed more than 3,000 people in 13 different countries, 19 different cities around the world. just to mention some of them — from someone included in the forbes list, to refugees who crossed the mediterranean by boat. in paris, from the unesco headquarters to a shelter. and students both in switzerland and favelas in rio de janeiro.all kinds of beliefs, gender identities or physical impairments, a newborn or terminally ill. we all together build humanae.those portraits make us rethink how we see each other. when modern science is questioning the race concept, what does it mean for us to be black, white, yellow, red? is it the eye, the nose, the mouth, the hair? or does it have to do with our origin, nationality or bank account?this personal exercise turned out to be a discovery. suddenly i realized that humanae was useful for many people. it represents a sort of mirror for those who cannot find themselves reflected in any label.it was amazing that people started to share their thoughts about the work with me. i have hundreds of that, i will share with you, too.a mother of 11 years — a mother of an 11-year-old girl wrote me, "very good for me as a tool to work on her confidence, as this past weekend one of her girlfriends argued with her that she does not belong and should not be allowed to live in norway. so your work has a very special place in my heart and it's very important for me."a woman shared her portrait on facebook and wrote, "all my life, people from across the globe had difficulties to place me in a group, a stereotype, a box. perhaps we should stop. instead of framing, ask the individual, 'how would you label yourself?' then i would say, 'hi. i'm massiel. i'm a dominican-dutch, i grew up in a mixed family and i'm a bisexual woman.' "besides these unexpected and touching reactions, humanae finds a new life in a different variety of fields. just to show you some examples, illustrators and art students using it as a reference for their sketches and their studies. it's a collection of faces.researchers in the fields of anthropology, physics and neuroscience use humanae with different scientific approaches related to human ethnicity, optophysiology, face recognition or alzheimer's.one of the most important impacts of the project is that humanae was chosen to be the cover of foreign affairs, one of the most relevant political publications. and talking about foreign affairs, i found the perfect ambassadors for my project ... teachers. they are the ones that use humanae as a tool for educational purposes. their passion encourages me to go back to drawing classes, but this time as a teacher myself.my students, both adults and kids, paint their self-portraits, trying to discover their own unique color.as a photographer, i realize that i can be a channel for others to communicate. as an individual, as angélica, every time i take a picture, i feel that i am sitting in front of a therapist. all the frustration, fear and loneliness that i once felt ... becomes love.the last country — the last country in the world who abolished slavery is the country where i was born, brazil. we still have to work hard to abolish discrimination. that remains a common practice worldwide, and that will not disappear by itself.thank you. thank you.<title = "Why gun violence can't be our new normal">
<tags = "['Debate', 'Guns', 'activism', 'big problems', 'children', 'choice', 'community', 'future', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'law', 'marketing', 'parenting', 'policy', 'social change', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Gun-control activist">
ok, so, confession: i've always been weirdly obsessed with advertising. i remember watching saturday morning cartoons, paying more attention to the commercials than to the shows, trying to figure out how they were trying to get inside my head. ultimately, that led me to my dream job. i became a partner at a big new york ad agency.but then, all of that suddenly changed on february 23, 1997, when my little brother matt was shot in the head in a shooting that happened on the observation deck of the empire state building. suddenly, my family was thrown into the middle of a nightmare, being told that my brother was going to die, actually being given the opportunity to say goodbye to him, then several emergency brain surgeries and now what's amounted, for matt, to a lifetime spent courageously recovering from a traumatic brain injury. he is definitely my hero.but as much as  — yeah, deserves it — but as much as this tragedy was a nightmare for my family, i often think about how much worse it could have been; in fact, how much worse it is for the 90 families every day who aren't as fortunate, who lose loved ones — brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, parents. they don't all make national headlines. in fact, most of them don't. they go largely unnoticed, in a nation that's kind of come to accept a disgraceful national epidemic as some kind of new normal.so i quit my job in advertising to try and do something about this disgraceful national epidemic, because i came to realize that the challenges to preventing gun violence are actually the same ones that made me love advertising, which is to try to figure out how to engage people. only instead of doing it to sell products, doing it to save lives. and that comes down to finding common ground, where what i want overlaps with what you want. and you might be surprised to learn, when it comes to gun violence, just how much common ground there is.let's look, for example, at people who love to hunt, a sport enjoyed by millions across the us. it's a proud tradition. families. in some places, the first day of hunting season is actually a school holiday. what do hunters want? well, they want to hunt. they love their guns. they believe deeply in the second amendment right to own those guns. but that doesn't mean there isn't common ground.in fact, there's a lot of it, starting with the basic idea of keeping guns out of dangerous hands. this isn't about taking certain guns away from all people. it's about keeping all guns away from certain people, and it's the people that, it turns out, we all agree shouldn't have guns: convicted violent criminals, domestic abusers, the dangerously mentally ill. we can all appreciate how brady background checks have been incredibly effective in keeping guns out of those dangerous hands. in 20 years, brady background checks at federally licensed firearm dealers have blocked 2.4 million gun sales to those people that we all agree shouldn't have guns. and whether you love guns or hate guns, you probably also appreciate that there shouldn't be thousands of gun sales every day at guns shows or online without those brady background checks, just like there shouldn't be two lines to get on an airplane — one with security and one with no security. and — and the numbers show the overwhelming agreement among the american public: 90 percent of americans support expanding brady background checks to all gun sales — including 90 percent of republicans, more than 80 percent of gun owners, more than 70 percent of nra members. this is not a controversial idea. in fact, only six percent of the american public disagrees. that's about the percentage of the american public that believes the moon landing was a fake. and it's also about the percentage that believes the government is putting mind-controlling technology in our tv broadcast signals. that's the extent to which we agree about background checks.but what about the 300 million guns already out there in homes across america? well first, it's important to realize that those guns are mostly in the hands and homes of decent, law-abiding people like you and me, who want what we all want — including keeping our families safe. in fact, that's why more and more people are choosing to own guns. ten years ago, 42 percent of the american public believed — incorrectly — that a gun makes your home safer. today, that number is 63 percent.why? i kind of hate to say it, because it gets to the dark underbelly of advertising, which is if you tell a big enough lie enough times, eventually that lie becomes the truth. and that's exactly what's happened here. the corporate gun lobby has spent billions of dollars blocking the cdc from doing research into the public health epidemic of gun violence; blocking pediatricians from talking to parents about the dangers of guns in the home; blocking smart-gun technology and other technology that would prevent kids from firing parents' guns and would save lives. they're desperate to hide the truth, because they view the truth as a threat to their bottom line.and every day, people are dying as a result. and a lot of those people are children. every day in the us, nine kids are just shot unintentionally. 900 children and teens take their own lives every year. and here's the thing: they're almost all with a parent's gun. even two-thirds of school shootings happen with a gun taken from the home, including the terrible tragedy at sandy hook. i meet so many of these parents; it's the most heartbreaking part of my job. these are not bad people. they're just living with the unimaginable consequences of a very bad decision, made based on very bad information that was put into their minds by very bad people, who know good and well the misery that they're causing, but just don't care. and the result is a nightmare — not only for families like mine, but for, really, at the end of the day, all of us.but i'm not here to talk about the nightmare of gun violence. i'm here to talk about our dream, and it's a dream we all share, which is the dream of a better, safer, future. for my organization, for the brady campaign, that dream is reflected in the bold goal to cut the number of gun deaths in the us in half by 2025. and i hope to leave all of you here tonight with a strong sense of exactly why that dream is so absolutely within reach. because folks, for every great movement around the world, there's a moment where you can look back and say, "that's when things really started to change." and i'm here to say that for the movement to end gun violence in america, that moment is here. we are so clearly at a tipping point, because the american public has come together by the millions like never before, based on that common ground, to say, "enough." enough of the mass shootings in malls and movie theaters and churches and schools. enough of the daily terror of gun violence in homes and streets that's claimed the lives of women and young black men in staggering proportions. enough of easy access to guns by the people that we all agree shouldn't have them. and enough of a small group of craven politicians putting the interests of the corporate gun lobby ahead of the people they have been elected to represent. enough. and the really exciting thing is, it's not just the usual suspects like me that are saying it anymore. it's so much bigger than that. and if you want proof, let's start where most conversations in the us seem to start — with kim kardashian. and here's the thing: it's not really a joke. i mean, think about when issues change. it's when they go from being political and advocacy issues to being part of pop culture, voices coming from everywhere, celebrities using their platforms, musicians, athletes. the nba has come forward. conservative pundits that you never would have imagined have come forward. there's real cultural change — i even hear there's a ted talk about it this year. that's the extent to which this cultural change is happening. and yes, kim kardashian has made an unsolicited passionate appeal to her 35 million twitter followers for expanded background checks.let's look at the political elections that are heating up. this used to be the classic third-rail issue for democrats. couldn't run from it fast enough. now candidates are running on it. some are being forced to reverse very bad positions they defended very comfortably, until very recently. for somebody like me, watching people wave around their negative nra ratings — it's almost surreal to watch. we're still outfunded, yes, by the corporate gun lobby, and ultimately that needs to change. but you know what? we're smarter and we're scrappier, and we have the truth on our side. and we're on offense.you know, they say that the internet democratizes information. social media and some of the organizing tools that plug into it have democratized activism. it's allowed us to show what 90 percent support really looks like. sometimes i think of it — you know, we're converging and attacking instantly by the millions, kind of like white blood cells. it's enabled us to start to really close — and this is the bottom line — close that disgraceful disconnect between what the american public wants and what our elected leaders are doing about it.until recently, the narrative in congress was that calls from the other side, from that six percent, outnumbered calls from our side 10 to one. we're flipping that narrative on its head. after that recent terrible tragedy in san bernardino, we jammed congressional switchboards. we put 15,000 calls into congress in 24 hours. and you know what? we got a vote on a bill that nobody thought was going to see the light of day anytime soon. we're seeing real movement to repeal some of the most evil, ugly gun lobby legislation passed over the last dark decade. the stranglehold of the gun lobby is clearly being broken. we've seen president obama's historic executive actions. they don't go all the way, but they are going to save lives, because they expand brady background checks to thousands of gun sales that didn't have them previously. and we're marching across the country — we're not just waiting for congress to act; that would almost be the definition of insanity. we're marching across the country, state by state, marriage-equality style.and you know what? we're winning. congress is almost always the last to wake up and realize that it's on the wrong side of history. and when they do, it's always because the american public shakes them. and that's exactly what we're doing right now, as we're in this tipping point.you know, recently i was flying cross-country to give a speech to a large group like this, although far less intimidating, and the woman sitting next to me happened to be binge-watching one of my all-time favorite tv shows, "mad men," a period tv show about advertising in the 1960s. and as i was trying to think about how to end my remarks, i'd glance up at her screen every now and then, and it seemed that every time i did, i'd see somebody smoking in an office or around children or while pregnant or drinking and driving or driving without seat belts or sexually harassing a coworker.and ultimately it dawned on me: what tremendous inspiration to those of us who have this dream to end gun violence. i mean, think about how much the world has changed in a relatively short period of time, how all those behaviors that were once considered commonplace or normal — some even glamorous or sexy — have become stigmatized in just a generation or two, once they became conversations about our common ground. that is the magnitude of the change we have the potential to create around gun violence.and that's my dream, that maybe someday, some period tv show will depict the terrible nightmare of gun violence, and a future generation of children might only be able to imagine how terrible it must have been.thank you. thank you. thank you. <title = "How humans could evolve to survive in space">
<tags = "['Planets', 'TEDx', 'astrobiology', 'bacteria', 'biology', 'engineering', 'environment', 'evolution', 'exploration', 'future', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'potential', 'science']">
<occupation = "Synthetic biologist ">
so there are lands few and far between on earth itself that are hospitable to humans by any measure, but survive we have. our primitive ancestors, when they found their homes and livelihood endangered, they dared to make their way into unfamiliar territories in search of better opportunities. and as the descendants of these explorers, we have their nomadic blood coursing through our own veins. but at the same time, distracted by our bread and circuses and embroiled in the wars that we have waged on each other, it seems that we have forgotten this desire to explore. we, as a species, we're evolved uniquely for earth, on earth, and by earth, and so content are we with our living conditions that we have grown complacent and just too busy to notice that its resources are finite, and that our sun's life is also finite. while mars and all the movies made in its name have reinvigorated the ethos for space travel, few of us seem to truly realize that our species' fragile constitution is woefully unprepared for long duration journeys into space.let us take a trek to your local national forest for a quick reality check. so just a quick show of hands here: how many of you think you would be able to survive in this lush wilderness for a few days? well, that's a lot of you. how about a few weeks? that's a decent amount. how about a few months? that's pretty good too. now, let us imagine that this local national forest experiences an eternal winter. same questions: how many of you think you would be able to survive for a few days? that's quite a lot. how about a few weeks? so for a fun twist, let us imagine that the only source of water available is trapped as frozen blocks miles below the surface. soil nutrients are so minimal that no vegetation can be found, and of course hardly any atmosphere exists to speak of.such examples are only a few of the many challenges we would face on a planet like mars. so how do we steel ourselves for voyages whose destinations are so far removed from a tropical vacation? will we continuously ship supplies from planet earth? build space elevators, or impossible miles of transport belts that tether your planet of choice to our home planet? and how do we grow things like food that grew up on earth like us?but i'm getting ahead of myself. in our species' journey to find a new home under a new sun, we are more likely than not going to be spending much time in the journey itself, in space, on a ship, a hermetic flying can, possibly for many generations.the longest continuous amount of time that any human has spent in space is in the vicinity of 12 to 14 months. from astronauts' experiences in space, we know that spending time in a microgravity environment means bone loss, muscle atrophy, cardiovascular problems, among many other complications that range for the physiological to the psychological. and what about macrogravity, or any other variation in gravitational pull of the planet that we find ourselves on?in short, our cosmic voyages will be fraught with dangers both known and unknown. so far we've been looking to this new piece of mechanical technology or that great next generation robot as part of a lineup to ensure our species safe passage in space. wonderful as they are, i believe the time has come for us to complement these bulky electronic giants with what nature has already invented: the microbe, a single-celled organism that is itself a self-generating, self-replenishing, living machine. it requires fairly little to maintain, offers much flexibility in design and only asks to be carried in a single plastic tube.the field of study that has enabled us to utilize the capabilities of the microbe is known as synthetic biology. it comes from molecular biology, which has given us antibiotics, vaccines and better ways to observe the physiological nuances of the human body. using the tools of synthetic biology, we can now edit the genes of nearly any organism, microscopic or not, with incredible speed and fidelity. given the limitations of our man-made machines, synthetic biology will be a means for us to engineer not only our food, our fuel and our environment, but also ourselves to compensate for our physical inadequacies and to ensure our survival in space.to give you an example of how we can use synthetic biology for space exploration, let us return to the mars environment. the martian soil composition is similar to that of hawaiian volcanic ash, with trace amounts of organic material. let's say, hypothetically, what if martian soil could actually support plant growth without using earth-derived nutrients? the first question we should probably ask is, how would we make our plants cold-tolerant? because, on average, the temperature on mars is a very uninviting negative 60 degrees centigrade. the next question we should ask is, how do we make our plants drought-tolerant? considering that most of the water that forms as frost evaporates more quickly than i can say the word "evaporate." well, it turns out we've already done things like this. by borrowing genes for anti-freeze protein from fish and genes for drought tolerance from other plants like rice and then stitching them into the plants that need them, we now have plants that can tolerate most droughts and freezes. they're known on earth as gmos, or genetically modified organisms, and we rely on them to feed all the mouths of human civilization. nature does stuff like this already, without our help. we have simply found more precise ways to do it.so why would we want to change the genetic makeup of plants for space? well, to not do so would mean needing to engineer endless acres of land on an entirely new planet by releasing trillions of gallons of atmospheric gasses and then constructing a giant glass dome to contain it all. it's an unrealistic engineering enterprise that quickly becomes a high-cost cargo transport mission. one of the best ways to ensure that we will have the food supplies and the air that we need is to bring with us organisms that have been engineered to adapt to new and harsh environments. in essence, using engineered organisms to help us terraform a planet both in the short and long term. these organisms can then also be engineered to make medicine or fuel.so we can use synthetic biology to bring highly engineered plants with us, but what else can we do? well, i mentioned earlier that we, as a species, were evolved uniquely for planet earth. that fact has not changed much in the last five minutes that you were sitting here and i was standing there. and so, if we were to dump any of us on mars right this minute, even given ample food, water, air and a suit, we are likely to experience very unpleasant health problems from the amount of ionizing radiation that bombards the surface of planets like mars that have little or nonexistent atmosphere. unless we plan to stay holed up underground for the duration of our stay on every new planet, we must find better ways of protecting ourselves without needing to resort to wearing a suit of armor that weighs something equal to your own body weight, or needing to hide behind a wall of lead.so let us appeal to nature for inspiration. among the plethora of life here on earth, there's a subset of organisms known as extremophiles, or lovers of extreme living conditions, if you'll remember from high school biology. and among these organisms is a bacterium by the name of deinococcus radiodurans. it is known to be able to withstand cold, dehydration, vacuum, acid, and, most notably, radiation. while its radiation tolerance mechanisms are known, we have yet to adapt the relevant genes to mammals. to do so is not particularly easy. there are many facets that go into its radiation tolerance, and it's not as simple as transferring one gene. but given a little bit of human ingenuity and a little bit of time, i think to do so is not very hard either. even if we borrow just a fraction of its ability to tolerate radiation, it would be infinitely better than what we already have, which is just the melanin in our skin. using the tools of synthetic biology, we can harness deinococcus radiodurans' ability to thrive under otherwise very lethal doses of radiation. as difficult as it is to see, homo sapiens, that is humans, evolves every day, and still continues to evolve. thousands of years of human evolution has not only given us humans like tibetans, who can thrive in low-oxygen conditions, but also argentinians, who can ingest and metabolize arsenic, the chemical element that can kill the average human being. every day, the human body evolves by accidental mutations that equally accidentally allow certain humans to persevere in dismal situations.but, and this is a big but, such evolution requires two things that we may not always have, or be able to afford, and they are death and time. in our species' struggle to find our place in the universe, we may not always have the time necessary for the natural evolution of extra functions for survival on non-earth planets. we're living in what e.o. wilson has termed the age of gene circumvention, during which we remedy our genetic defects like cystic fibrosis or muscular dystrophy with temporary external supplements. but with every passing day, we approach the age of volitional evolution, a time during which we as a species will have the capacity to decide for ourselves our own genetic destiny. augmenting the human body with new abilities is no longer a question of how, but of when.using synthetic biology to change the genetic makeup of any living organisms, especially our own, is not without its moral and ethical quandaries. will engineering ourselves make us less human? but then again, what is humanity but star stuff that happens to be conscious? where should human genius direct itself? surely it is a bit of a waste to sit back and marvel at it. how do we use our knowledge to protect ourselves from the external dangers and then protect ourselves from ourselves?i pose these questions not to engender the fear of science but to bring to light the many possibilities that science has afforded and continues to afford us. we must coalesce as humans to discuss and embrace the solutions not only with caution but also with courage.mars is a destination, but it will not be our last. our true final frontier is the line we must cross in deciding what we can and should make of our species' improbable intelligence.space is cold, brutal and unforgiving. our path to the stars will be rife with trials that will bring us to question not only who we are but where we will be going. the answers will lie in our choice to use or abandon the technology that we have gleaned from life itself, and it will define us for the remainder of our term in this universe.thank you. <title = "Two reasons companies fail -- and how to avoid them">
<tags = "['business', 'creativity', 'curiosity', 'goal-setting', 'innovation', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'potential', 'success', 'work']">
<occupation = "Strategist">
here are two reasons companies fail: they only do more of the same, or they only do what's new.to me the real, real solution to quality growth is figuring out the balance between two activities: exploration and exploitation. both are necessary, but it can be too much of a good thing.consider facit. i'm actually old enough to remember them. facit was a fantastic company. they were born deep in the swedish forest, and they made the best mechanical calculators in the world. everybody used them. and what did facit do when the electronic calculator came along? they continued doing exactly the same. in six months, they went from maximum revenue ... and they were gone. gone.to me, the irony about the facit story is hearing about the facit engineers, who had bought cheap, small electronic calculators in japan that they used to double-check their calculators. facit did too much exploitation. but exploration can go wild, too.a few years back, i worked closely alongside a european biotech company. let's call them oncosearch. the company was brilliant. they had applications that promised to diagnose, even cure, certain forms of blood cancer. every day was about creating something new. they were extremely innovative, and the mantra was, "when we only get it right," or even, "we want it perfect." the sad thing is, before they became perfect — even good enough — they became obsolete. oncosearch did too much exploration.i first heard about exploration and exploitation about 15 years ago, when i worked as a visiting scholar at stanford university. the founder of the idea is jim march. and to me the power of the idea is its practicality.exploration. exploration is about coming up with what's new. it's about search, it's about discovery, it's about new products, it's about new innovations. it's about changing our frontiers. our heroes are people who have done exploration: madame curie, picasso, neil armstrong, sir edmund hillary, etc. i come from norway; all our heroes are explorers, and they deserve to be. we all know that exploration is risky. we don't know the answers, we don't know if we're going to find them, and we know that the risks are high.exploitation is the opposite. exploitation is taking the knowledge we have and making good, better. exploitation is about making our trains run on time. it's about making good products faster and cheaper. exploitation is not risky — in the short term. but if we only exploit, it's very risky in the long term. and i think we all have memories of the famous pop groups who keep singing the same songs again and again, until they become obsolete or even pathetic. that's the risk of exploitation.so if we take a long-term perspective, we explore. if we take a short-term perspective, we exploit. small children, they explore all day. all day it's about exploration. as we grow older, we explore less because we have more knowledge to exploit on. the same goes for companies. companies become, by nature, less innovative as they become more competent.and this is, of course, a big worry to ceos. and i hear very often questions phrased in different ways. for example, "how can i both effectively run and reinvent my company?" or, "how can i make sure that our company changes before we become obsolete or are hit by a crisis?" so, doing one well is difficult. doing both well as the same time is art — pushing both exploration and exploitation.so one thing we've found is only about two percent of companies are able to effectively explore and exploit at the same time, in parallel. but when they do, the payoffs are huge. so we have lots of great examples. we have nestlé creating nespresso, we have lego going into animated films, toyota creating the hybrids, unilever pushing into sustainability — there are lots of examples, and the benefits are huge.why is balancing so difficult? i think it's difficult because there are so many traps that keep us where we are. so i'll talk about two, but there are many.so let's talk about the perpetual search trap. we discover something, but we don't have the patience or the persistence to get at it and make it work. so instead of staying with it, we create something new. but the same goes for that, then we're in the vicious circle of actually coming up with ideas but being frustrated. oncosearch was a good example. a famous example is, of course, xerox. but we don't only see this in companies. we see this in the public sector as well. we all know that any kind of effective reform of education, research, health care, even defense, takes 10, 15, maybe 20 years to work. but still, we change much more often. we really don't give them the chance.another trap is the success trap. facit fell into the success trap. they literally held the future in their hands, but they couldn't see it. they were simply so good at making what they loved doing, that they wouldn't change. we are like that, too. when we know something well, it's difficult to change. bill gates has said: "success is a lousy teacher. it seduces us into thinking we cannot fail." that's the challenge with success.so i think there are some lessons, and i think they apply to us. and they apply to our companies. the first lesson is: get ahead of the crisis. and any company that's able to innovate is actually able to also buy an insurance in the future. netflix — they could so easily have been content with earlier generations of distribution, but they always — and i think they will always — keep pushing for the next battle. i see other companies that say, "i'll win the next innovation cycle, whatever it takes."second one: think in multiple time scales. i'll share a chart with you, and i think it's a wonderful one. any company we look at, taking a one-year perspective and looking at the valuation of the company, innovation typically accounts for only about 30 percent. so when we think one year, innovation isn't really that important. move ahead, take a 10-year perspective on the same company — suddenly, innovation and ability to renew account for 70 percent. but companies can't choose. they need to fund the journey and lead the long term.third: invite talent. i don't think it's possible for any of us to be able to balance exploration and exploitation by ourselves. i think it's a team sport. i think we need to allow challenging. i think the mark of a great company is being open to be challenged, and the mark of a good corporate board is to constructively challenge. i think that's also what good parenting is about.last one: be skeptical of success. maybe it's useful to think back at the old triumph marches in rome, when the generals, after a big victory, were given their celebration. riding into rome on the carriage, they always had a companion whispering in their ear, "remember, you're only human."so i hope i made the point: balancing exploration and exploitation has a huge payoff. but it's difficult, and we need to be conscious.i want to just point out two questions that i think are useful. first question is, looking at your own company: in which areas do you see that the company is at the risk of falling into success traps, of just going on autopilot? and what can you do to challenge?second question is: when did i explore something new last, and what kind of effect did it have on me? is that something i should do more of? in my case, yes.so let me leave you with this. whether you're an explorer by nature or whether you tend to exploit what you already know, don't forget: the beauty is in the balance.thank you. <title = "The surprising habits of original thinkers">
<tags = "['business', 'creativity', 'curiosity', 'decision-making', 'exploration', 'failure', 'innovation', 'invention', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'potential', 'success', 'work']">
<occupation = "Organizational psychologist">
seven years ago, a student came to me and asked me to invest in his company. he said, "i'm working with three friends, and we're going to try to disrupt an industry by selling stuff online." and i said, "ok, you guys spent the whole summer on this, right?" "no, we all took internships just in case it doesn't work out." "all right, but you're going to go in full time once you graduate." "not exactly. we've all lined up backup jobs." six months go by, it's the day before the company launches, and there is still not a functioning website. "you guys realize, the entire company is a website. that's literally all it is." so i obviously declined to invest.and they ended up naming the company warby parker. they sell glasses online. they were recently recognized as the world's most innovative company and valued at over a billion dollars. and now? my wife handles our investments. why was i so wrong?to find out, i've been studying people that i come to call "originals." originals are nonconformists, people who not only have new ideas but take action to champion them. they are people who stand out and speak up. originals drive creativity and change in the world. they're the people you want to bet on. and they look nothing like i expected. i want to show you today three things i've learned about recognizing originals and becoming a little bit more like them.so the first reason that i passed on warby parker was they were really slow getting off the ground. now, you are all intimately familiar with the mind of a procrastinator. well, i have a confession for you. i'm the opposite. i'm a precrastinator. yes, that's an actual term. you know that panic you feel a few hours before a big deadline when you haven't done anything yet. i just feel that a few months ahead of time. so this started early: when i was a kid, i took nintendo games very seriously. i would wake up at 5am, start playing and not stop until i had mastered them. eventually it got so out of hand that a local newspaper came and did a story on the dark side of nintendo, starring me. since then, i have traded hair for teeth. but this served me well in college, because i finished my senior thesis four months before the deadline. and i was proud of that, until a few years ago. i had a student named jihae, who came to me and said, "i have my most creative ideas when i'm procrastinating." and i was like, "that's cute, where are the four papers you owe me?" no, she was one of our most creative students, and as an organizational psychologist, this is the kind of idea that i test. so i challenged her to get some data. she goes into a bunch of companies. she has people fill out surveys about how often they procrastinate. then she gets their bosses to rate how creative and innovative they are. and sure enough, the precrastinators like me, who rush in and do everything early are rated as less creative than people who procrastinate moderately. so i want to know what happens to the chronic procrastinators. she was like, "i don't know. they didn't fill out my survey." no, here are our results. you actually do see that the people who wait until the last minute are so busy goofing off that they don't have any new ideas. and on the flip side, the people who race in are in such a frenzy of anxiety that they don't have original thoughts either. there's a sweet spot where originals seem to live. why is this? maybe original people just have bad work habits. maybe procrastinating does not cause creativity.to find out, we designed some experiments. we asked people to generate new business ideas, and then we get independent readers to evaluate how creative and useful they are. and some of them are asked to do the task right away. others we randomly assign to procrastinate by dangling minesweeper in front of them for either five or 10 minutes. and sure enough, the moderate procrastinators are 16 percent more creative than the other two groups. now, minesweeper is awesome, but it's not the driver of the effect, because if you play the game first before you learn about the task, there's no creativity boost. it's only when you're told that you're going to be working on this problem, and then you start procrastinating, but the task is still active in the back of your mind, that you start to incubate. procrastination gives you time to consider divergent ideas, to think in nonlinear ways, to make unexpected leaps.so just as we were finishing these experiments, i was starting to write a book about originals, and i thought, "this is the perfect time to teach myself to procrastinate, while writing a chapter on procrastination." so i metaprocrastinated, and like any self-respecting precrastinator, i woke up early the next morning and i made a to-do list with steps on how to procrastinate. and then i worked diligently toward my goal of not making progress toward my goal. i started writing the procrastination chapter, and one day — i was halfway through — i literally put it away in mid-sentence for months. it was agony. but when i came back to it, i had all sorts of new ideas. as aaron sorkin put it, "you call it procrastinating. i call it thinking." and along the way i discovered that a lot of great originals in history were procrastinators. take leonardo da vinci. he toiled on and off for 16 years on the mona lisa. he felt like a failure. he wrote as much in his journal. but some of the diversions he took in optics transformed the way that he modeled light and made him into a much better painter. what about martin luther king, jr.? the night before the biggest speech of his life, the march on washington, he was up past 3am, rewriting it. he's sitting in the audience waiting for his turn to go onstage, and he is still scribbling notes and crossing out lines. when he gets onstage, 11 minutes in, he leaves his prepared remarks to utter four words that changed the course of history: "i have a dream." that was not in the script. by delaying the task of finalizing the speech until the very last minute, he left himself open to the widest range of possible ideas. and because the text wasn't set in stone, he had freedom to improvise.procrastinating is a vice when it comes to productivity, but it can be a virtue for creativity. what you see with a lot of great originals is that they are quick to start but they're slow to finish. and this is what i missed with warby parker. when they were dragging their heels for six months, i looked at them and said, "you know, a lot of other companies are starting to sell glasses online." they missed the first-mover advantage. but what i didn't realize was they were spending all that time trying to figure out how to get people to be comfortable ordering glasses online. and it turns out the first-mover advantage is mostly a myth. look at a classic study of over 50 product categories, comparing the first movers who created the market with the improvers who introduced something different and better. what you see is that the first movers had a failure rate of 47 percent, compared with only 8 percent for the improvers. look at facebook, waiting to build a social network until after myspace and friendster. look at google, waiting for years after altavista and yahoo. it's much easier to improve on somebody else's idea than it is to create something new from scratch. so the lesson i learned is that to be original you don't have to be first. you just have to be different and better.but that wasn't the only reason i passed on warby parker. they were also full of doubts. they had backup plans lined up, and that made me doubt that they had the courage to be original, because i expected that originals would look something like this. now, on the surface, a lot of original people look confident, but behind the scenes, they feel the same fear and doubt that the rest of us do. they just manage it differently. let me show you: this is a depiction of how the creative process works for most of us. now, in my research, i discovered there are two different kinds of doubt. there's self-doubt and idea doubt. self-doubt is paralyzing. it leads you to freeze. but idea doubt is energizing. it motivates you to test, to experiment, to refine, just like mlk did. and so the key to being original is just a simple thing of avoiding the leap from step three to step four. instead of saying, "i'm crap," you say, "the first few drafts are always crap, and i'm just not there yet." so how do you get there? well, there's a clue, it turns out, in the internet browser that you use. we can predict your job performance and your commitment just by knowing what web browser you use. now, some of you are not going to like the results of this study — but there is good evidence that firefox and chrome users significantly outperform internet explorer and safari users. yes. they also stay in their jobs 15 percent longer, by the way. why? it's not a technical advantage. the four browser groups on average have similar typing speed and they also have similar levels of computer knowledge. it's about how you got the browser. because if you use internet explorer or safari, those came preinstalled on your computer, and you accepted the default option that was handed to you. if you wanted firefox or chrome, you had to doubt the default and ask, is there a different option out there, and then be a little resourceful and download a new browser. so people hear about this study and they're like, "great, if i want to get better at my job, i just need to upgrade my browser?" no, it's about being the kind of person who takes the initiative to doubt the default and look for a better option. and if you do that well, you will open yourself up to the opposite of déjà vu. there's a name for it. it's called vuja de. vuja de is when you look at something you've seen many times before and all of a sudden see it with fresh eyes. it's a screenwriter who looks at a movie script that can't get the green light for more than half a century. in every past version, the main character has been an evil queen. but jennifer lee starts to question whether that makes sense. she rewrites the first act, reinvents the villain as a tortured hero and frozen becomes the most successful animated movie ever. so there's a simple message from this story. when you feel doubt, don't let it go. what about fear? originals feel fear, too. they're afraid of failing, but what sets them apart from the rest of us is that they're even more afraid of failing to try. they know you can fail by starting a business that goes bankrupt or by failing to start a business at all. they know that in the long run, our biggest regrets are not our actions but our inactions. the things we wish we could redo, if you look at the science, are the chances not taken.elon musk told me recently, he didn't expect tesla to succeed. he was sure the first few spacex launches would fail to make it to orbit, let alone get back, but it was too important not to try. and for so many of us, when we have an important idea, we don't bother to try. but i have some good news for you. you are not going to get judged on your bad ideas. a lot of people think they will. if you look across industries and ask people about their biggest idea, their most important suggestion, 85 percent of them stayed silent instead of speaking up. they were afraid of embarrassing themselves, of looking stupid. but guess what? originals have lots and lots of bad ideas, tons of them, in fact. take the guy who invented this. do you care that he came up with a talking doll so creepy that it scared not only kids but adults, too? no. you celebrate thomas edison for pioneering the light bulb. if you look across fields, the greatest originals are the ones who fail the most, because they're the ones who try the most. take classical composers, the best of the best. why do some of them get more pages in encyclopedias than others and also have their compositions rerecorded more times? one of the best predictors is the sheer volume of compositions that they generate. the more output you churn out, the more variety you get and the better your chances of stumbling on something truly original. even the three icons of classical music — bach, beethoven, mozart — had to generate hundreds and hundreds of compositions to come up with a much smaller number of masterpieces. now, you may be wondering, how did this guy become great without doing a whole lot? i don't know how wagner pulled that off. but for most of us, if we want to be more original, we have to generate more ideas.the warby parker founders, when they were trying to name their company, they needed something sophisticated, unique, with no negative associations to build a retail brand, and they tested over 2,000 possibilities before they finally put together warby and parker. so if you put all this together, what you see is that originals are not that different from the rest of us. they feel fear and doubt. they procrastinate. they have bad ideas. and sometimes, it's not in spite of those qualities but because of them that they succeed.so when you see those things, don't make the same mistake i did. don't write them off. and when that's you, don't count yourself out either. know that being quick to start but slow to finish can boost your creativity, that you can motivate yourself by doubting your ideas and embracing the fear of failing to try, and that you need a lot of bad ideas in order to get a few good ones.look, being original is not easy, but i have no doubt about this: it's the best way to improve the world around us.thank you. <title = "How a start-up in the White House is changing business as usual">
<tags = "['Internet', 'big problems', 'code', 'future', 'government', 'health care', 'innovation', 'potential', 'programming', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Disrupter">
i'm here to talk to you today about a story that we have all been conditioned to believe is not possible. it's a story about a living, breathing start-up flourishing in an unlikely environment: the united states government. now, this start-up is fundamentally beginning to disrupt the way government does business from the inside out. but before i get there, let's start with the problem.for me, the problem begins with a number: 137. 137 is the average number of days a veteran has to wait to have benefits processed by the va. 137 days. now, in order to file that application in the first place, she has to navigate over 1,000 different websites and over 900 different call-in numbers, all owned and operated by the united states government.now, we live in times of incredible change. the private sector is constantly changing and improving itself all the time. for that matter, it's removing every single inconvenience in my life that i could possibly think of. i could be sitting on my couch in my apartment, and from my phone, i can order a warm, gluten-free meal that can arrive at my door in less than 10 minutes. but meanwhile, a working mother who depends on food stamps to support her family has to complete an arduous, complicated application which she might not even be able to do online. and the inability of her to do that same work from her couch means that she might be having to take days or hours off of work that she can't spare. and this growing dichotomy between the beneficiaries of the tech revolution and those it's left behind is one of the greatest challenges of our time — because government's failure to deliver digital services that work is disproportionately impacting the very people who need it most. it's impacting the students trying to go to college, the single mothers trying to get health care, the veterans coming home from battle. they can't get what they need when they need it. and for these americans, government is more than just a presidential election every four years. government is a lifeline that provides services they need and depend on and deserve. which is, quite frankly, why government needs to get its shit together and catch up. just saying. now, this wasn't always a problem i was passionate about. when i joined president obama's campaign in 2008, we brought the tech industry's best practices into politics. we earned more money, we engaged more volunteers and we earned more votes than any political campaign in history. we were a cutting-edge start-up that changed the game of politics forever. so when the president asked a small group of us to bring that very same disruption directly into government, i knew it wasn't going to be easy work, but i was eager and showed up ready to get to work.now, on my first day in dc, my first day in government, i walked into the office and they handed me a laptop. and the laptop was running windows 98. i mean, three entire presidential elections had come and gone since the government had updated the operating system on that computer. three elections! which is when we realized this problem was a whole lot bigger than we ever could have imagined. let me paint the picture for you.the federal government is the largest institution in the world. it spends over 86 billion dollars a year — 86 billion — on federal it projects. for context: that is more than the entire venture capital industry spends annually — on everything. now, the problem here is that we the taxpayers are not getting what we pay for, because 94 percent of federal it projects are over budget or behind schedule. 94 percent! for those of you keeping score, yes, the number 94 is very close to 100. there's another problem: 40 percent of those never end up seeing the light of day. they are completely scrapped or abandoned. now, this is a very existentially painful moment for any organization, because it means as government continues to operate as it's programmed to do, failure is nearly inevitable. and when the status quo is the riskiest option, that means there is simply no other choice than radical disruption.so, what do we do about it? how do we fix this? well, the irony of all of this is that we actually don't have to look any further than our backyard, because right here in america are the very ideas, the very people, who have swept our world into a radically different place than it was two decades ago. so what would it look like if it was actually as easy to get student loans or veterans' benefits as it is to order cat food to my house? what would it look like if there was an easy pathway for the very entrepreneurs and innovators who have disrupted our tech sector to come and disrupt their government?well, my friends, here's where we get to talk about some of the exciting new formulas we've discovered for creating change in government. enter the united states digital service. the united states digital service is a new network of start-ups, a team of teams, organizing themselves across government to create radical change. the mission of the united states digital service is to help government deliver world-class digital services for students, immigrants, children, the elderly — everybody — at dramatically lower costs. we are essentially trying to build a more awesome government, for the people, by the people, today. we don't care —  thank you. who doesn't want a more awesome government, right?we don't care about politics. we care about making government work better, because it's the only one we've got. now, you can think of our team — well, it's pretty funny — you can think of our team a little bit like the peace corps meets darpa meets seal team 6. we're like the peace corps for nerds, but instead of traveling to crazy, interesting, far-off places, you spend a lot of time indoors, behind computers, helping restore the fabric of our democracy. now, this team — our playbook for the united states digital service is pretty simple. the first play is we recruit the very best talent our country has to offer, and recruit them for short tours of duty inside government. these are the very people who have helped build the products and companies that have made our tech sector amongst the most innovative in the world. second, we pair these incredible people from the tech core with the dedicated civil servants already inside government on the ground creating change. third, we strategically deploy them in a targeted formation at the most mission-critical, life-changing, important services that government offers. and finally, we give them massive air cover, from the leadership inside the agencies all the way up to the president himself, to transform these services for the better.now, this team is beginning to disrupt how government does business from the inside out. if you study classic patterns of disruption, one very common pattern is rather simple. it's to take something that has become routine and standard in one industry and apply it to another where it's a radical departure from the status quo. think about what airbnb took that was normal from hospitality and revolutionized my apartment. the united states digital service is doing exactly that. we are taking what silicon valley and the private sector has learned through a ton of hard work about how to build planetary-scale digital services that delight users at lower cost, and we're applying that to government, where it is a radical departure from the status quo.now, the good news is: it's starting to work. we know this because we can already see the results from some of our early projects, like the rescue effort of healthcare.gov, when that went off the rails. fixing healthcare.gov was the first place that we ran this play, and today we are taking that same play and scaling it across a large number of government's most important citizen-facing services. now, if i can take a moment and brag about the team for a second — it is the highest concentration of badasses i could have ever dreamed of. we have top talent from google, facebook, amazon, twitter and the likes, all on staff today, all choosing to join their government. and what's incredible is, everybody is as eager and kind as they are intelligent. and i might add, by the way, over half of us are women. the best way to understand this strategy is actually to walk through a couple of examples of how it's working out in the wild. i'm going to give you two examples quickly.the first one is about immigration. this, my friends, is your typical immigration application. yes, you guessed it — it's almost entirely paper-based. in the best case, the application takes about six to eight months to process. it is physically shipped thousands of miles — thousands of miles! — between no less than six processing centers. now, little story: about a decade ago, the government thought that if it brought this system online, it could save taxpayer dollars and provide a better service, which was a great idea. so, the typical government process began. six years and 1.2 billion dollars later, no working product was delivered — 1.2 billion with a "b." now at this point, the agency responsible, us citizenship and immigration services, could have kept pouring money into the failing program. sadly, that's what often happens. that's the status quo today. but they didn't. the dedicated civil servants inside the agency decided to stand up and call for change. we deployed a small team of just six people, and what many people don't know is that's the same size as the rescue effort of healthcare.gov — just six people. and that team jumped in, side-by-side, to support the agency in transitioning this project into more modern business practices, more modern development practices. now, in non-tech speak, what that basically means is taking big, multi-year projects and breaking them up into bite-sized chunks, so that way we can reduce the risk and actually start to see results every couple of weeks, instead of waiting in a black box for years.so within less than three months of our team being on the ground, we were already able to push our first products to production. the first one, this is the form i-90. this is used to file for your replacement green card. now, for immigrant visa holders, a replacement green card is a big deal. your green card is your proof of identification, it's your work authorization, it's the proof that you can be here in this country. so waiting six months while the government processes the replacement is not cool. i'm excited to tell you that today, you can now, for the first time, file for a replacement green card entirely online without anyone touching a piece of paper. it is faster, it is cheaper, and it's a better user experience for the applicant and the government employees alike. another one, quickly. last fall, we just released a brand-new practice civics test. so as part of becoming a us citizen, you have to pass a civics test. for anyone who has taken this test, it can be quite the stressful process. so our team released a very easy, simple-to-use tool in plain language to help people prepare, to help ease their nerves, to help them feel more confident in taking the next step in pursuing their american dream. because all of this work, all of this work on immigration, is about taking complicated processes and making them more human.the other day, one of the dedicated civil servants on the ground said something incredibly profound. she said that she's never been this hopeful or optimistic about a project in her entire time in government. and she's been doing this for 30 years. that is exactly the kind of hope and culture change we are trying to create.for my second example, i want to bring it back to veterans for a second, and what we are doing to build them a va that is worthy of their service and their sacrifice. i'm proud to say that just a few months ago, we released a brand-new beta of a new website, vets.gov. vets.gov is a simple, easy-to-use website that brings all of the online services a veteran needs into one place. one website, not thousands. the site is a work in progress, but it's significant progress, because it's designed with the users who matter most: the veterans themselves. this might sound incredibly obvious, because it should be, but sadly, this isn't normal for government. far too often, product decisions are made by committees of stakeholders who do their best to represent the interests of the user, but they're not necessarily the users themselves. so our team at the va went out, we looked at the data, we talked to veterans themselves and we started simple and small, with the two most important services that matter most to them: education benefits and disability benefits. i'm proud to say that they are live on the site today, and as the team continues to streamline more services, they will be ported over here, and the old sites, shut down. to me, this is what change looks like in 2016.when you walk out of the oval office, the first time i was ever there, i noticed a quote the president had embroidered on the rug. it's the classic jfk quote. it says, "no problem of human destiny is beyond human beings." it's true. we have the tools to solve these problems. we have the tools to come together as a society, as a country, and to fix this together. yes, it's hard. it's particularly hard when we have to fight, when we have to refuse to succumb to the belief that things won't change. but in my experience, it's often the hardest things that are the most worth doing, because if we don't do them, who will? this is on us, all of us, together, because government is not an abstract institution or a concept. our government is us. today, it is no longer a question of if change is possible. the question is not, "can we?" the question is, "will we?"will you?thank you. thank you. <title = "How megacities are changing the map of the world">
<tags = "['Internet', 'big problems', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'economics', 'engineering', 'environment', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'green', 'history', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'investment', 'map', 'mobility', 'policy', 'politics', 'pollution', 'potential', 'social change', 'society', 'transportation', 'urban planning', 'visualizations', 'war', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Global strategist">
i want you to reimagine how life is organized on earth. think of the planet like a human body that we inhabit. the skeleton is the transportation system of roads and railways, bridges and tunnels, air and seaports that enable our mobility across the continents. the vascular system that powers the body are the oil and gas pipelines and electricity grids. that distribute energy. and the nervous system of communications is the internet cables, satellites, cellular networks and data centers that allow us to share information.this ever-expanding infrastructural matrix already consists of 64 million kilometers of roads, four million kilometers of railways, two million kilometers of pipelines and one million kilometers of internet cables. what about international borders? we have less than 500,000 kilometers of borders.let's build a better map of the world. and we can start by overcoming some ancient mythology. there's a saying with which all students of history are familiar: "geography is destiny." sounds so grave, doesn't it? it's such a fatalistic adage. it tells us that landlocked countries are condemned to be poor, that small countries cannot escape their larger neighbors, that vast distances are insurmountable. but every journey i take around the world, i see an even greater force sweeping the planet: connectivity.the global connectivity revolution, in all of its forms — transportation, energy and communications — has enabled such a quantum leap in the mobility of people, of goods, of resources, of knowledge, such that we can no longer even think of geography as distinct from it. in fact, i view the two forces as fusing together into what i call "connectography."connectography represents a quantum leap in the mobility of people, resources and ideas, but it is an evolution, an evolution of the world from political geography, which is how we legally divide the world, to functional geography, which is how we actually use the world, from nations and borders, to infrastructure and supply chains.our global system is evolving from the vertically integrated empires of the 19th century, through the horizontally interdependent nations of the 20th century, into a global network civilization in the 21st century. connectivity, not sovereignty, has become the organizing principle of the human species. we are becoming this global network civilization because we are literally building it. all of the world's defense budgets and military spending taken together total just under two trillion dollars per year. meanwhile, our global infrastructure spending is projected to rise to nine trillion dollars per year within the coming decade. and, well, it should. we have been living off an infrastructure stock meant for a world population of three billion, as our population has crossed seven billion to eight billion and eventually nine billion and more. as a rule of thumb, we should spend about one trillion dollars on the basic infrastructure needs of every billion people in the world.not surprisingly, asia is in the lead. in 2015, china announced the creation of the asian infrastructure investment bank, which together with a network of other organizations aims to construct a network of iron and silk roads, stretching from shanghai to lisbon.and as all of this topographical engineering unfolds, we will likely spend more on infrastructure in the next 40 years, we will build more infrastructure in the next 40 years, than we have in the past 4,000 years.now let's stop and think about it for a minute. spending so much more on building the foundations of global society rather than on the tools to destroy it can have profound consequences. connectivity is how we optimize the distribution of people and resources around the world. it is how mankind comes to be more than just the sum of its parts. i believe that is what is happening.connectivity has a twin megatrend in the 21st century: planetary urbanization. cities are the infrastructures that most define us. by 2030, more than two thirds of the world's population will live in cities. and these are not mere little dots on the map, but they are vast archipelagos stretching hundreds of kilometers.here we are in vancouver, at the head of the cascadia corridor that stretches south across the us border to seattle. the technology powerhouse of silicon valley begins north of san francisco down to san jose and across the bay to oakland. the sprawl of los angeles now passes san diego across the mexican border to tijuana. san diego and tijuana now share an airport terminal where you can exit into either country. eventually, a high-speed rail network may connect the entire pacific spine. america's northeastern megalopolis begins in boston through new york and philadelphia to washington. it contains more than 50 million people and also has plans for a high-speed rail network.but asia is where we really see the megacities coming together. this continuous strip of light from tokyo through nagoya to osaka contains more than 80 million people and most of japan's economy. it is the world's largest megacity. for now.but in china, megacity clusters are coming together with populations reaching 100 million people. the bohai rim around beijing, the yangtze river delta around shanghai and the pearl river delta, stretching from hong kong north to guangzhou. and in the middle, the chongqing-chengdu megacity cluster, whose geographic footprint is almost the same size as the country of austria.and any number of these megacity clusters has a gdp approaching two trillion dollars — that's almost the same as all of india today. so imagine if our global diplomatic institutions, such as the g20, were to base their membership on economic size rather than national representation. some chinese megacities may be in and have a seat at the table, while entire countries, like argentina or indonesia would be out.moving to india, whose population will soon exceed that of china, it too has a number of megacity clusters, such as the delhi capital region and mumbai. in the middle east, greater tehran is absorbing one third of iran's population. most of egypt's 80 million people live in the corridor between cairo and alexandria. and in the gulf, a necklace of city-states is forming, from bahrain and qatar, through the united arab emirates to muscat in oman.and then there's lagos, africa's largest city and nigeria's commercial hub. it has plans for a rail network that will make it the anchor of a vast atlantic coastal corridor, stretching across benin, togo and ghana, to abidjan, the capital of the ivory coast.but these countries are suburbs of lagos. in a megacity world, countries can be suburbs of cities. by 2030, we will have as many as 50 such megacity clusters in the world. so which map tells you more? our traditional map of 200 discrete nations that hang on most of our walls, or this map of the 50 megacity clusters?and yet, even this is incomplete because you cannot understand any individual megacity without understanding its connections to the others. people move to cities to be connected, and connectivity is why these cities thrive. any number of them, such as sao paulo or istanbul or moscow, has a gdp approaching or exceeding one third of one half of their entire national gdp.but equally importantly, you cannot calculate any of their individual value without understanding the role of the flows of people, of finance, of technology that enable them to thrive. take the gauteng province of south africa, which contains johannesburg and the capital pretoria. it too represents just over a third of south africa's gdp. but equally importantly, it is home to the offices of almost every single multinational corporation that invests directly into south africa and indeed, into the entire african continent.cities want to be part of global value chains. they want to be part of this global division of labor. that is how cities think. i've never met a mayor who said to me, "i want my city to be cut off." they know that their cities belong as much to the global network civilization as to their home countries.now, for many people, urbanization causes great dismay. they think cities are wrecking the planet. but right now, there are more than 200 intercity learning networks thriving. that is as many as the number of intergovernmental organizations that we have. and all of these intercity networks are devoted to one purpose, mankind's number one priority in the 21st century: sustainable urbanization.is it working? let's take climate change. we know that summit after summit in new york and paris is not going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. but what we can see is that transferring technology and knowledge and policies between cities is how we've actually begun to reduce the carbon intensity of our economies.cities are learning from each other. how to install zero-emissions buildings, how to deploy electric car-sharing systems. in major chinese cities, they're imposing quotas on the number of cars on the streets. in many western cities, young people don't even want to drive anymore. cities have been part of the problem, now they are part of the solution.inequality is the other great challenge to achieving sustainable urbanization. when i travel through megacities from end to end — it takes hours and days — i experience the tragedy of extreme disparity within the same geography. and yet, our global stock of financial assets has never been larger, approaching 300 trillion dollars. that's almost four times the actual gdp of the world.we have taken on such enormous debts since the financial crisis, but have we invested them in inclusive growth? no, not yet. only when we build sufficient, affordable public housing, when we invest in robust transportation networks to allow people to connect to each other both physically and digitally, that's when our divided cities and societies will come to feel whole again. and that is why infrastructure has just been included in the united nations sustainable development goals, because it enables all the others. our political and economic leaders are learning that connectivity is not charity, it's opportunity. and that's why our financial community needs to understand that connectivity is the most important asset class of the 21st century.now, cities can make the world more sustainable, they can make the world more equitable, i also believe that connectivity between cities can make the world more peaceful. if we look at regions of the world with dense relations across borders, we see more trade, more investment and more stability. we all know the story of europe after world war ii, where industrial integration kicked off a process that gave rise to today's peaceful european union. and you can see that russia, by the way, is the least connected of major powers in the international system. and that goes a long way towards explaining the tensions today. countries that have less stake in the system also have less to lose in disturbing it. in north america, the lines that matter most on the map are not the us-canada border or the us-mexico border, but the dense network of roads and railways and pipelines and electricity grids and even water canals that are forming an integrated north american union. north america does not need more walls, it needs more connections. but the real promise of connectivity is in the postcolonial world. all of those regions where borders have historically been the most arbitrary and where generations of leaders have had hostile relations with each other. but now a new group of leaders has come into power and is burying the hatchet.let's take southeast asia, where high-speed rail networks are planned to connect bangkok to singapore and trade corridors from vietnam to myanmar. now this region of 600 million people coordinates its agricultural resources and its industrial output. it is evolving into what i call a pax asiana, a peace among southeast asian nations.a similar phenomenon is underway in east africa, where a half dozen countries are investing in railways and multimodal corridors so that landlocked countries can get their goods to market. now these countries coordinate their utilities and their investment policies. they, too, are evolving into a pax africana.one region we know could especially use this kind of thinking is the middle east. as arab states tragically collapse, what is left behind but the ancient cities, such as cairo, beirut and baghdad? in fact, the nearly 400 million people of the arab world are almost entirely urbanized. as societies, as cities, they are either water rich or water poor, energy rich or energy poor. and the only way to correct these mismatches is not through more wars and more borders, but through more connectivity of pipelines and water canals. sadly, this is not yet the map of the middle east. but it should be, a connected pax arabia, internally integrated and productively connected to its neighbors: europe, asia and africa.now, it may not seem like connectivity is what we want right now towards the world's most turbulent region. but we know from history that more connectivity is the only way to bring about stability in the long run. because we know that in region after region, connectivity is the new reality. cities and countries are learning to aggregate into more peaceful and prosperous wholes.but the real test is going to be asia. can connectivity overcome the patterns of rivalry among the great powers of the far east? after all, this is where world war iii is supposed to break out. since the end of the cold war, a quarter century ago, at least six major wars have been predicted for this region. but none have broken out.take china and taiwan. in the 1990s, this was everyone's leading world war iii scenario. but since that time, the trade and investment volumes across the straits have become so intense that last november, leaders from both sides held a historic summit to discuss eventual peaceful reunification. and even the election of a nationalist party in taiwan that's pro-independence earlier this year does not undermine this fundamental dynamic.china and japan have an even longer history of rivalry and have been deploying their air forces and navies to show their strength in island disputes. but in recent years, japan has been making its largest foreign investments in china. japanese cars are selling in record numbers there. and guess where the largest number of foreigners residing in japan today comes from? you guessed it: china.china and india have fought a major war and have three outstanding border disputes, but today india is the second largest shareholder in the asian infrastructure investment bank. they're building a trade corridor stretching from northeast india through myanmar and bangladesh to southern china. their trade volume has grown from 20 billion dollars a decade ago to 80 billion dollars today.nuclear-armed india and pakistan have fought three wars and continue to dispute kashmir, but they're also negotiating a most-favored-nation trade agreement and want to complete a pipeline stretching from iran through pakistan to india.and let's talk about iran. wasn't it just two years ago that war with iran seemed inevitable? then why is every single major power rushing to do business there today?ladies and gentlemen, i cannot guarantee that world war iii will not break out. but we can definitely see why it hasn't happened yet. even though asia is home to the world's fastest growing militaries, these same countries are also investing billions of dollars in each other's infrastructure and supply chains. they are more interested in each other's functional geography than in their political geography. and that is why their leaders think twice, step back from the brink, and decide to focus on economic ties over territorial tensions.so often it seems like the world is falling apart, but building more connectivity is how we put humpty dumpty back together again, much better than before. and by wrapping the world in such seamless physical and digital connectivity, we evolve towards a world in which people can rise above their geographic constraints. we are the cells and vessels pulsing through these global connectivity networks.everyday, hundreds of millions of people go online and work with people they've never met. more than one billion people cross borders every year, and that's expected to rise to three billion in the coming decade.we don't just build connectivity, we embody it. we are the global network civilization, and this is our map. a map of the world in which geography is no longer destiny. instead, the future has a new and more hopeful motto: connectivity is destiny.thank you. <title = "The magic ingredient that brings Pixar movies to life">
<tags = "['art', 'beauty', 'code', 'computers', 'design', 'entertainment', 'film', 'magic', 'movies', 'programming', 'science', 'technology', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Director of photography, Pixar">
when i was seven years old, some well-meaning adult asked me what i wanted to be when i grew up. proudly, i said: "an artist." "no, you don't," he said, "you can't make a living being an artist!"my little seven-year-old picasso dreams were crushed. but i gathered myself, went off in search of a new dream, eventually settling on being a scientist, perhaps something like the next albert einstein. i have always loved math and science, later, coding. and so i decided to study computer programming in college. in my junior year, my computer graphics professor showed us these wonderful short films. it was the first computer animation any of us had ever seen. i watched these films in wonder, transfixed, fireworks going off in my head, thinking, "that is what i want to do with my life." the idea that all the math, science and code i had been learning could come together to create these worlds and characters and stories i connected with, was pure magic for me.just two years later, i started working at the place that made those films, pixar animation studios. it was here i learned how we actually execute those films. to create our movies, we create a three-dimensional world inside the computer. we start with a point that makes a line that makes a face that creates characters, or trees and rocks that eventually become a forest. and because it's a three-dimensional world, we can move a camera around inside that world. i was fascinated by all of it. but then i got my first taste of lighting.lighting in practice is placing lights inside this three-dimensional world. i actually have icons of lights i move around in there. here you can see i've added a light, i'm turning on the rough version of lighting in our software, turn on shadows and placing the light. as i place a light, i think about what it might look like in real life, but balance that out with what we need artistically and for the story. so it might look like this at first, but as we adjust this and move that in weeks of work, in rough form it might look like this, and in final form, like this.there's this moment in lighting that made me fall utterly in love with it. it's where we go from this to this. it's the moment where all the pieces come together, and suddenly the world comes to life as if it's an actual place that exists. this moment never gets old, especially for that little seven-year-old girl that wanted to be an artist.as i learned to light, i learned about using light to help tell story, to set the time of day, to create the mood, to guide the audience's eye, how to make a character look appealing or stand out in a busy set.did you see wall-e? there he is.as you can see, we can create any world that we want inside the computer. we can make a world with monsters, with robots that fall in love, we can even make pigs fly. while this is an incredible thing, this untethered artistic freedom, it can create chaos. it can create unbelievable worlds, unbelievable movement, things that are jarring to the audience.so to combat this, we tether ourselves with science. we use science and the world we know as a backbone, to ground ourselves in something relatable and recognizable. "finding nemo" is an excellent example of this. a major portion of the movie takes place underwater. but how do you make it look underwater?in early research and development, we took a clip of underwater footage and recreated it in the computer. then we broke it back down to see which elements make up that underwater look. one of the most critical elements was how the light travels through the water. so we coded up a light that mimics this physics — first, the visibility of the water, and then what happens with the color. objects close to the eye have their full, rich colors. as light travels deeper into the water, we lose the red wavelengths, then the green wavelengths, leaving us with blue at the far depths.in this clip you can see two other important elements. the first is the surge and swell, or the invisible underwater current that pushes the bits of particulate around in the water. the second is the caustics. these are the ribbons of light, like you might see on the bottom of a pool, that are created when the sun bends through the crests of the ripples and waves on the ocean's surface. here we have the fog beams. these give us color depth cues, but also tells which direction is up in shots where we don't see the water surface. the other really cool thing you can see here is that we lit that particulate only with the caustics, so that as it goes in and out of those ribbons of light, it appears and disappears, lending a subtle, magical sparkle to the underwater.you can see how we're using the science — the physics of water, light and movement — to tether that artistic freedom. but we are not beholden to it. we considered each of these elements and which ones had to be scientifically accurate and which ones we could push and pull to suit the story and the mood.we realized early on that color was one we had some leeway with. so here's a traditionally colored underwater scene. but here, we can take sydney harbor and push it fairly green to suit the sad mood of what's happening. in this scene, it's really important we see deep into the underwater, so we understand what the east australian current is, that the turtles are diving into and going on this roller coaster ride. so we pushed the visibility of the water well past anything you would ever see in real life. because in the end, we are not trying to recreate the scientifically correct real world, we're trying to create a believable world, one the audience can immerse themselves in to experience the story.we use science to create something wonderful. we use story and artistic touch to get us to a place of wonder. this guy, wall-e, is a great example of that. he finds beauty in the simplest things. but when he came in to lighting, we knew we had a big problem. we got so geeked-out on making wall-e this convincing robot, that we made his binoculars practically optically perfect. his binoculars are one of the most critical acting devices he has. he doesn't have a face or even traditional dialogue, for that matter. so the animators were heavily dependent on the binoculars to sell his acting and emotions.we started lighting and we realized the triple lenses inside his binoculars were a mess of reflections. he was starting to look glassy-eyed. now, glassy-eyed is a fundamentally awful thing when you are trying to convince an audience that a robot has a personality and he's capable of falling in love. so we went to work on these optically perfect binoculars, trying to find a solution that would maintain his true robot materials but solve this reflection problem.so we started with the lenses. here's the flat-front lens, we have a concave lens and a convex lens. and here you see all three together, showing us all these reflections. we tried turning them down, we tried blocking them, nothing was working. you can see here, sometimes we needed something specific reflected in his eyes — usually eve. so we couldn't just use some faked abstract image on the lenses. so here we have eve on the first lens, we put eve on the second lens, it's not working. we turn it down, it's still not working.and then we have our eureka moment. we add a light to wall-e that accidentally leaks into his eyes. you can see it light up these gray aperture blades. suddenly, those aperture blades are poking through that reflection the way nothing else has. now we recognize wall-e as having an eye. as humans we have the white of our eye, the colored iris and the black pupil. now wall-e has the black of an eye, the gray aperture blades and the black pupil. suddenly, wall-e feels like he has a soul, like there's a character with emotion inside. later in the movie towards the end, wall-e loses his personality, essentially going dead. this is the perfect time to bring back that glassy-eyed look. in the next scene, wall-e comes back to life. we bring that light back to bring the aperture blades back, and he returns to that sweet, soulful robot we've come to love.(video) wall-e: eva?danielle feinberg: there's a beauty in these unexpected moments — when you find the key to unlocking a robot's soul, the moment when you discover what you want to do with your life. the jellyfish in "finding nemo" was one of those moments for me.there are scenes in every movie that struggle to come together. this was one of those scenes. the director had a vision for this scene based on some wonderful footage of jellyfish in the south pacific. as we went along, we were floundering. the reviews with the director turned from the normal look-and-feel conversation into more and more questions about numbers and percentages. maybe because unlike normal, we were basing it on something in real life, or maybe just because we had lost our way. but it had become about using our brain without our eyes, the science without the art. that scientific tether was strangling the scene.but even through all the frustrations, i still believed it could be beautiful. so when it came in to lighting, i dug in. as i worked to balance the blues and the pinks, the caustics dancing on the jellyfish bells, the undulating fog beams, something promising began to appear. i came in one morning and checked the previous night's work. and i got excited. and then i showed it to the lighting director and she got excited. soon, i was showing to the director in a dark room full of 50 people.in director review, you hope you might get some nice words, then you get some notes and fixes, generally. and then, hopefully, you get a final, signaling to move on to the next stage. i gave my intro, and i played the jellyfish scene. and the director was silent for an uncomfortably long amount of time. just long enough for me to think, "oh no, this is doomed." and then he started clapping. and then the production designer started clapping. and then the whole room was clapping. this is the moment that i live for in lighting. the moment where it all comes together and we get a world that we can believe in.we use math, science and code to create these amazing worlds. we use storytelling and art to bring them to life. it's this interweaving of art and science that elevates the world to a place of wonder, a place with soul, a place we can believe in, a place where the things you imagine can become real — and a world where a girl suddenly realizes not only is she a scientist, but also an artist.thank you. <title = "The most mysterious star in the universe">
<tags = "['NASA', 'Planets', 'astronomy', 'exploration', 'extraterrestrial life', 'nature', 'science', 'technology', 'telescopes', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Astronomer">
extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, and it is my job, my responsibility, as an astronomer to remind people that alien hypotheses should always be a last resort.now, i want to tell you a story about that. it involves data from a nasa mission, ordinary people and one of the most extraordinary stars in our galaxy.it began in 2009 with the launch of nasa's kepler mission. kepler's main scientific objective was to find planets outside of our solar system. it did this by staring at a single field in the sky, this one, with all the tiny boxes. and in this one field, it monitored the brightness of over 150,000 stars continuously for four years, taking a data point every 30 minutes. it was looking for what astronomers call a transit. this is when the planet's orbit is aligned in our line of sight, just so that the planet crosses in front of a star. and when this happens, it blocks out a tiny bit of starlight, which you can see as a dip in this curve.and so the team at nasa had developed very sophisticated computers to search for transits in all the kepler data.at the same time of the first data release, astronomers at yale were wondering an interesting thing: what if computers missed something?and so we launched the citizen science project called planet hunters to have people look at the same data. the human brain has an amazing ability for pattern recognition, sometimes even better than a computer. however, there was a lot of skepticism around this. my colleague, debra fischer, founder of the planet hunters project, said that people at the time were saying, "you're crazy. there's no way that a computer will miss a signal." and so it was on, the classic human versus machine gamble. and if we found one planet, we would be thrilled. when i joined the team four years ago, we had already found a couple. and today, with the help of over 300,000 science enthusiasts, we have found dozens, and we've also found one of the most mysterious stars in our galaxy.so to understand this, let me show you what a normal transit in kepler data looks like. on this graph on the left-hand side you have the amount of light, and on the bottom is time. the white line is light just from the star, what astronomers call a light curve. now, when a planet transits a star, it blocks out a little bit of this light, and the depth of this transit reflects the size of the object itself. and so, for example, let's take jupiter. planets don't get much bigger than jupiter. jupiter will make a one percent drop in a star's brightness. earth, on the other hand, is 11 times smaller than jupiter, and the signal is barely visible in the data.so back to our mystery. a few years ago, planet hunters were sifting through data looking for transits, and they spotted a mysterious signal coming from the star kic 8462852. the observations in may of 2009 were the first they spotted, and they started talking about this in the discussion forums.they said and object like jupiter would make a drop like this in the star's light, but they were also saying it was giant. you see, transits normally only last for a few hours, and this one lasted for almost a week.they were also saying that it looks asymmetric, meaning that instead of the clean, u-shaped dip that we saw with jupiter, it had this strange slope that you can see on the left side. this seemed to indicate that whatever was getting in the way and blocking the starlight was not circular like a planet. there are few more dips that happened, but for a couple of years, it was pretty quiet.and then in march of 2011, we see this. the star's light drops by a whole 15 percent, and this is huge compared to a planet, which would only make a one percent drop. we described this feature as both smooth and clean. it also is asymmetric, having a gradual dimming that lasts almost a week, and then it snaps right back up to normal in just a matter of days.and again, after this, not much happens until february of 2013. things start to get really crazy. there is a huge complex of dips in the light curve that appear, and they last for like a hundred days, all the way up into the kepler mission's end. these dips have variable shapes. some are very sharp, and some are broad, and they also have variable durations. some last just for a day or two, and some for more than a week. and there's also up and down trends within some of these dips, almost like several independent events were superimposed on top of each other. and at this time, this star drops in its brightness over 20 percent. this means that whatever is blocking its light has an area of over 1,000 times the area of our planet earth.this is truly remarkable. and so the citizen scientists, when they saw this, they notified the science team that they found something weird enough that it might be worth following up. and so when the science team looked at it, we're like, "yeah, there's probably just something wrong with the data." but we looked really, really, really hard, and the data were good. and so what was happening had to be astrophysical, meaning that something in space was getting in the way and blocking starlight. and so at this point, we set out to learn everything we could about the star to see if we could find any clues to what was going on. and the citizen scientists who helped us in this discovery, they joined along for the ride watching science in action firsthand.first, somebody said, you know, what if this star was very young and it still had the cloud of material it was born from surrounding it. and then somebody else said, well, what if the star had already formed planets, and two of these planets had collided, similar to the earth-moon forming event. well, both of these theories could explain part of the data, but the difficulties were that the star showed no signs of being young, and there was no glow from any of the material that was heated up by the star's light, and you would expect this if the star was young or if there was a collision and a lot of dust was produced. and so somebody else said, well, how about a huge swarm of comets that are passing by this star in a very elliptical orbit? well, it ends up that this is actually consistent with our observations. but i agree, it does feel a little contrived. you see, it would take hundreds of comets to reproduce what we're observing. and these are only the comets that happen to pass between us and the star. and so in reality, we're talking thousands to tens of thousands of comets. but of all the bad ideas we had, this one was the best. and so we went ahead and published our findings.now, let me tell you, this was one of the hardest papers i ever wrote. scientists are meant to publish results, and this situation was far from that. and so we decided to give it a catchy title, and we called it: "where's the flux?" i will let you work out the acronym. so this isn't the end of the story. around the same time i was writing this paper, i met with a colleague of mine, jason wright, and he was also writing a paper on kepler data. and he was saying that with kepler's extreme precision, it could actually detect alien megastructures around stars, but it didn't. and then i showed him this weird data that our citizen scientists had found, and he said to me, "aw crap, tabby. now i have to rewrite my paper."so yes, the natural explanations were weak, and we were curious now. so we had to find a way to rule out aliens. so together, we convinced a colleague of ours who works on seti, the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, that this would be an extraordinary target to pursue. we wrote a proposal to observe the star with the world's largest radio telescope at the green bank observatory.a couple months later, news of this proposal got leaked to the press and now there are thousands of articles, over 10,000 articles, on this star alone. and if you search google images, this is what you'll find.now, you may be wondering, ok, tabby, well, how do aliens actually explain this light curve? ok, well, imagine a civilization that's much more advanced than our own. in this hypothetical circumstance, this civilization would have exhausted the energy supply of their home planet, so where could they get more energy? well, they have a host star just like we have a sun, and so if they were able to capture more energy from this star, then that would solve their energy needs. so they would go and build huge structures. these giant megastructures, like ginormous solar panels, are called dyson spheres.this image above are lots of artists' impressions of dyson spheres. it's really hard to provide perspective on the vastness of these things, but you can think of it this way. the earth-moon distance is a quarter of a million miles. the simplest element on one of these structures is 100 times that size. they're enormous. and now imagine one of these structures in motion around a star. you can see how it would produce anomalies in the data such as uneven, unnatural looking dips.but it remains that even alien megastructures cannot defy the laws of physics. you see, anything that uses a lot of energy is going to produce heat, and we don't observe this. but it could be something as simple as they're just reradiating it away in another direction, just not at earth.another idea that's one of my personal favorites is that we had just witnessed an interplanetary space battle and the catastrophic destruction of a planet. now, i admit that this would produce a lot of dust that we don't observe. but if we're already invoking aliens in this explanation, then who is to say they didn't efficiently clean up all this mess for recycling purposes? you can see how this quickly captures your imagination.well, there you have it. we're in a situation that could unfold to be a natural phenomenon we don't understand or an alien technology we don't understand. personally, as a scientist, my money is on the natural explanation. but don't get me wrong, i do think it would be awesome to find aliens. either way, there is something new and really interesting to discover.so what happens next? we need to continue to observe this star to learn more about what's happening. but professional astronomers, like me, we have limited resources for this kind of thing, and kepler is on to a different mission.and i'm happy to say that once again, citizen scientists have come in and saved the day. you see, this time, amateur astronomers with their backyard telescopes stepped up immediately and started observing this star nightly at their own facilities, and i am so excited to see what they find.what's amazing to me is that this star would have never been found by computers because we just weren't looking for something like this. and what's more exciting is that there's more data to come. there are new missions that are coming up that are observing millions more stars all over the sky.and just think: what will it mean when we find another star like this? and what will it mean if we don't find another star like this?thank you. <title = "The Panama Papers exposed a huge global problem. What's next?">
<tags = "['activism', 'big problems', 'business', 'corruption', 'economics', 'global issues', 'government', 'identity', 'inequality', 'investment', 'law', 'money', 'news', 'poverty']">
<occupation = "Campaign leader, Global Witness">
[on april 3, 2016 we saw the largest data leak in history.] [the panama papers exposed rich and powerful people] [hiding vast amounts of money in offshore accounts.] [what does this mean?] [we called robert palmer of global witness to explain.]this week, there have been a whole slew and deluge of stories coming out from the leak of 11 million documents from a panamanian-based law firm called mossack fonseca. the release of these papers from panama lifts the veil on a tiny piece of the secretive offshore world. we get an insight into how clients and banks and lawyers go to companies like mossack fonseca and say, "ok, we want an anonymous company, can you give us one?" so you actually get to see the emails, you get to see the exchanges of messages, you get to see the mechanics of how this works, how this operates.now, this has already started to have pretty immediate repercussions. the prime minister of iceland has resigned. we've also had news that an ally of the brutal syrian dictator bashar al-assad has also got offshore companies. there's been allegations of a $2 billion money trail that leads back to president vladimir putin of russia via his close childhood friend, who happens to be a top cellist. and there will be a lot of rich individuals out there and others who will be nervous about the next set of stories and the next set of leaked documents.now, this sounds like the plot of a spy thriller or a john grisham novel. it seems very distant from you, me, ordinary people. why should we care about this? but the truth is that if rich and powerful individuals are able to keep their money offshore and not pay the taxes that they should, it means that there is less money for vital public services like healthcare, education, roads. and that affects all of us.now, for my organization global witness, this exposé has been phenomenal. we have the world's media and political leaders talking about how individuals can use offshore secrecy to hide and disguise their assets — something we have been talking about and exposing for a decade.now, i think a lot of people find this entire world baffling and confusing, and hard to understand how this sort of offshore world works. i like to think of it a bit like a russian doll. so you can have one company stacked inside another company, stacked inside another company, making it almost impossible to really understand who is behind these structures. it can be very difficult for law enforcement or tax authorities, journalists, civil society to really understand what's going on.i also think it's interesting that there's been less coverage of this issue in the united states. and that's perhaps because some prominent us people just haven't figured in this exposé, in this scandal. now, that's not because there are no rich americans who are stashing their assets offshore. it's just because of the way in which offshore works, mossack fonseca has fewer american clients. i think if we saw leaks from the cayman islands or even from delaware or wyoming or nevada, you would see many more cases and examples linking back to americans.in fact, in a number of us states you need less information, you need to provide less information to get a company than you do to get a library card. that sort of secrecy in america has allowed employees of school districts to rip off schoolchildren. it has allowed scammers to rip off vulnerable investors. this is the sort of behavior that affects all of us.now, at global witness, we wanted to see what this actually looked like in practice. how does this actually work? so what we did is we sent in an undercover investigator to 13 manhattan law firms. our investigator posed as an african minister who wanted to move suspect funds into the united states to buy a house, a yacht, a jet. now, what was truly shocking was that all but one of those lawyers provided our investigator with suggestions on how to move those suspect funds. these were all preliminary meetings, and none of the lawyers took us on as a client and of course no money moved hands, but it really shows the problem with the system.it's also important to not just think about this as individual cases. this is not just about an individual lawyer who's spoken to our undercover investigator and provided suggestions. it's not just about a particular senior politician who's been caught up in a scandal. this is about how a system works, that entrenches corruption, tax evasion, poverty and instability. and in order to tackle this, we need to change the game. we need to change the rules of the game to make this sort of behavior harder.this may seem like doom and gloom, like there's nothing we can do about it, like nothing has ever changed, like there will always be rich and powerful individuals. but as a natural optimist, i do see that we are starting to get some change.over the last couple of years, we've seen a real push towards greater transparency when it comes to company ownership. this issue was put on the political agenda by the uk prime minister david cameron at a big g8 summit that was held in northern ireland in 2013. and since then, the european union is going to be creating central registers at a national level of who really owns and controls companies across europe.one of the things that is sad is that, actually, the us is lagging behind. there's bipartisan legislation that had been introduced in the house and the senate, but it isn't making as much progress as we'd like to see. so we'd really want to see the panama leaks, this huge peek into the offshore world, be used as a way of opening up in the us and around the world.for us at global witness, this is a moment for change. we need ordinary people to get angry at the way in which people can hide their identity behind secret companies. we need business leaders to stand up and say, "secrecy like this is not good for business." we need political leaders to recognize the problem, and to commit to changing the law to open up this sort of secrecy.together, we can end the secrecy that is currently allowing tax evasion, corruption, money laundering to flourish.<title = "The mind behind Linux">
<tags = "['Internet', 'code', 'communication', 'computers', 'data', 'engineering', 'interview', 'invention', 'programming', 'technology', 'web']">
<occupation = "Software engineer">
chris anderson: this is such a strange thing. your software, linux, is in millions of computers, it probably powers much of the internet. and i think that there are, like, a billion and a half active android devices out there. your software is in every single one of them. it's kind of amazing. you must have some amazing software headquarters driving all this. that's what i thought — and i was shocked when i saw a picture of it. i mean, this is — this is the linux world headquarters. linus torvalds: it really doesn't look like much. and i have to say, the most interesting part in this picture, that people mostly react to, is the walking desk. it is the most interesting part in my office and i'm not actually using it anymore. and i think the two things are related.the way i work is ... i want to not have external stimulation. you can kind of see, on the walls are this light green. i'm told that at mental institutions they use that on the walls. it's like a calming color, it's not something that really stimulates you.what you can't see is the computer here, you only see the screen, but the main thing i worry about in my computer is — it doesn't have to be big and powerful, although i like that — it really has to be completely silent. i know people who work for google and they have their own small data center at home, and i don't do that. my office is the most boring office you'll ever see. and i sit there alone in the quiet. if the cat comes up, it sits in my lap. and i want to hear the cat purring, not the sound of the fans in the computer.ca: so this is astonishing, because working this way, you're able to run this vast technology empire — it is an empire — so that's an amazing testament to the power of open source.tell us how you got to understand open source and how it lead to the development of linux.lt: i mean, i still work alone. really — i work alone in my house, often in my bathrobe. when a photographer shows up, i dress up, so i have clothes on. and that's how i've always worked. i mean, this was how i started linux, too. i did not start linux as a collaborative project. i started it as one in a series of many projects i had done at the time for myself, partly because i needed the end result, but even more because i just enjoyed programming. so it was about the end of the journey, which, 25 years later, we still have not reached. but it was really about the fact that i was looking for a project on my own and there was no open source, really, on my radar at all.and what happened is ... the project grows and becomes something you want to show off to people. really, this is more of a, "wow, look at what i did!" and trust me — it was not that great back then. i made it publicly available, and it wasn't even open source at that point. at that point it was source that was open, but there was no intention behind using the kind of open-source methodology that we think of today to improve it. it was more like, "look, i've been working on this for half a year, i'd love to have comments."and other people approached me. at the university of helsinki, i had a friend who was one of the open source — it was called mainly "free software" back then — and he actually introduced me to the notion that, hey, you can use these open-source licenses that had been around. and i thought about it for a while. i was actually worried about the whole commercial interests coming in. i mean, that's one of the worries i think most people who start out have, is that they worry about somebody taking advantage of their work, right? and i decided, "what the hell?" and —ca: and then at some point, someone contributed some code that you thought, "wow, that really is interesting, i would not have thought of that. this could actually improve this."lt: it didn't even start by people contributing code, it was more that people started contributing ideas. and just the fact that somebody else takes a look at your project — and i'm sure it's true of other things, too, but it's definitely true in code — is that somebody else takes an interest in your code, looks at it enough to actually give you feedback and give you ideas. that was a huge thing for me.i was 21 at the time, so i was young, but i had already programmed for half my life, basically. and every project before that had been completely personal and it was a revelation when people just started commenting, started giving feedback on your code. and even before they started giving code back, that was, i think, one of the big moments where i said, "i love other people!" don't get me wrong — i'm actually not a people person. i don't really love other people — but i love computers, i love interacting with other people on email, because it kind of gives you that buffer. but i do love other people who comment and get involved in my project. and it made it so much more.ca: so was there a moment when you saw what was being built and it suddenly started taking off, and you thought, "wait a sec, this actually could be something huge, not just a personal project that i'm getting nice feedback on, but a kind of explosive development in the whole technology world"?lt: not really. i mean, the big point for me, really, was not when it was becoming huge, it was when it was becoming little. the big point for me was not being alone and having 10, maybe 100 people being involved — that was a big point. then everything else was very gradual. going from 100 people to a million people is not a big deal — to me. well, i mean, maybe it is if you're — if you want to sell your result then it's a huge deal — don't get me wrong. but if you're interested in the technology and you're interested in the project, the big part was getting the community. then the community grew gradually. and there's actually not a single point where i went like, "wow, that just took off!" because it — i mean — it took a long time, relatively.ca: so all the technologists that i talk to really credit you with massively changing their work. and it's not just linux, it's this thing called git, which is this management system for software development. tell us briefly about that and your role in that.lt: so one of the issues we had, and this took a while to start to appear, is when you ... when you grow from having 10 people or 100 people working on a project to having 10,000 people, which — i mean, right now we're in the situation where just on the kernel, we have 1,000 people involved in every single release and that's every two months, roughly two or three months. some of those people don't do a lot. there's a lot of people who make small, small changes.but to maintain this, the scale changes how you have to maintain it. and we went through a lot of pain. and there are whole projects that do only source-code maintenance. cvs is the one that used to be the most commonly used, and i hated cvs with a passion and refused to touch it and tried something else that was radical and interesting and everybody else hated.ca: (laughs)lt: and we were in this bad spot, where we had thousands of people who wanted to participate, but in many ways, i was the kind of break point, where i could not scale to the point where i could work with thousands of people.so git is my second big project, which was only created for me to maintain my first big project. and this is literally how i work. i don't code for — well, i do code for fun — but i want to code for something meaningful so every single project i've ever done has been something i needed and —ca: so really, both linux and git kind of arose almost as an unintended consequence of your desire not to have to work with too many people.lt: absolutely. yes. ca: that's amazing. lt: yeah. and yet, you're the man who's transformed technology not just once but twice, and we have to try and understand why it is. you've given us some clues, but ... here's a picture of you as a kid, with a rubik's cube. you mentioned that you've been programming since you were like 10 or 11, half your life.were you this sort of computer genius, you know, übernerd, were you the star at school who could do everything? what were you like as a kid?lt: yeah, i think i was the prototypical nerd. i mean, i was ... i was not a people person back then. that's my younger brother. i was clearly more interested in the rubik's cube than my younger brother. my younger sister, who's not in the picture, when we had family meetings — and it's not a huge family, but i have, like, a couple of cousins — she would prep me beforehand. like, before i stepped into the room she would say, "ok. that's so-and-so ..." because i was not — i was a geek. i was into computers, i was into math, i was into physics. i was good at that. i don't think i was particularly exceptional. apparently, my sister said that my biggest exceptional quality was that i would not let go.ca: ok, so let's go there, because that's interesting. you would not let go. so that's not about being a geek and being smart, that's about being ... stubborn?lt: that's about being stubborn. that's about, like, just starting something and not saying, "ok, i'm done, let's do something else — look: shiny!"and i notice that in many other parts in my life, too. i lived in silicon valley for seven years. and i worked for the same company, in silicon valley, for the whole time. that is unheard of. that's not how silicon valley works. the whole point of silicon valley is that people jump between jobs to kind of mix up the pot. and that's not the kind of person i am.ca: but during the actual development of linux itself, that stubbornness sometimes brought you in conflict with other people. talk about that a bit. was that essential to sort of maintain the quality of what was being built? how would you describe what happened?lt: i don't know if it's essential. going back to the "i'm not a people person," — sometimes i'm also ... shall we say, "myopic" when it comes to other people's feelings, and that sometimes makes you say things that hurt other people. and i'm not proud of that. but, at the same time, it's — i get people who tell me that i should be nice. and then when i try to explain to them that maybe you're nice, maybe you should be more aggressive, they see that as me being not nice. what i'm trying to say is we are different. i'm not a people person; it's not something i'm particularly proud of, but it's part of me. and one of the things i really like about open source is it really allows different people to work together. we don't have to like each other — and sometimes we really don't like each other. really — i mean, there are very, very heated arguments. but you can, actually, you can find things that — you don't even agree to disagree, it's just that you're interested in really different things.and coming back to the point where i said earlier that i was afraid of commercial people taking advantage of your work, it turned out, and very quickly turned out, that those commercial people were lovely, lovely people. and they did all the things that i was not at all interested in doing, and they had completely different goals. and they used open source in ways that i just did not want to go. but because it was open source they could do it, and it actually works really beautifully together.and i actually think it works the same way. you need to have the people-people, the communicators, the warm and friendly people who like — really want to hug you and get you into the community. but that's not everybody. and that's not me. i care about the technology. there are people who care about the ui. i can't do ui to save my life. i mean, if i was stranded on an island and the only way to get off that island was the make a pretty ui, i'd die there. so there's different kinds of people, and i'm not making excuses, i'm trying to explain.ca: now, when we talked last week, you talked about some other trait that you have, which i found really interesting. it's this idea called taste.and i've just got a couple of images here. i think this is an example of not particularly good taste in code, and this one is better taste, which one can immediately see. what is the difference between these two?lt: so this is — how many people here actually have coded?ca: oh my goodness.lt: so i guarantee you, everybody who raised their hand, they have done what's called a singly-linked list. and it's taught — this, the first not very good taste approach, is basically how it's taught to be done when you start out coding. and you don't have to understand the code.the most interesting part to me is the last if statement. because what happens in a singly-linked list — this is trying to remove an existing entry from a list — and there's a difference between if it's the first entry or whether it's an entry in the middle. because if it's the first entry, you have to change the pointer to the first entry. if it's in the middle, you have to change the pointer of a previous entry. so they're two completely different cases.ca: and that's better.lt: and this is better. it does not have the if statement. and it doesn't really matter — i don't want you understand why it doesn't have the if statement, but i want you to understand that sometimes you can see a problem in a different way and rewrite it so that a special case goes away and becomes the normal case. and that's good code. but this is simple code. this is cs 101. this is not important — although, details are important.to me, the sign of people i really want to work with is that they have good taste, which is how ... i sent you this stupid example that is not relevant because it's too small. good taste is much bigger than this. good taste is about really seeing the big patterns and kind of instinctively knowing what's the right way to do things.ca: ok, so we're putting the pieces together here now. you have taste, in a way that's meaningful to software people. you're — lt: i think it was meaningful to some people here.ca: you're a very smart computer coder, and you're hellish stubborn. but there must be something else. i mean, you've changed the future. you must have the ability of these grand visions of the future. you're a visionary, right?lt: i've actually felt slightly uncomfortable at ted for the last two days, because there's a lot of vision going on, right? and i am not a visionary. i do not have a five-year plan. i'm an engineer. and i think it's really — i mean — i'm perfectly happy with all the people who are walking around and just staring at the clouds and looking at the stars and saying, "i want to go there." but i'm looking at the ground, and i want to fix the pothole that's right in front of me before i fall in. this is the kind of person i am.(cheers) ca: so you spoke to me last week about these two guys. who are they and how do you relate to them?lt: well, so this is kind of cliché in technology, the whole tesla versus edison, where tesla is seen as the visionary scientist and crazy idea man. and people love tesla. i mean, there are people who name their companies after him. the other person there is edison, who is actually often vilified for being kind of pedestrian and is — i mean, his most famous quote is, "genius is one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration." and i'm in the edison camp, even if people don't always like him. because if you actually compare the two, tesla has kind of this mind grab these days, but who actually changed the world? edison may not have been a nice person, he did a lot of things — he was maybe not so intellectual, not so visionary. but i think i'm more of an edison than a tesla.ca: so our theme at ted this week is dreams — big, bold, audacious dreams. you're really the antidote to that.lt: i'm trying to dial it down a bit, yes.ca: that's good. we embrace you, we embrace you.companies like google and many others have made, arguably, like, billions of dollars out of your software. does that piss you off?lt: no. no, it doesn't piss me off for several reasons. and one of them is, i'm doing fine. i'm really doing fine.but the other reason is — i mean, without doing the whole open source and really letting go thing, linux would never have been what it is. and it's brought experiences i don't really enjoy, public talking, but at the same time, this is an experience. trust me. so there's a lot of things going on that make me a very happy man and thinking i did the right choices.ca: is the open source idea — this is, i think we'll end here — is the open source idea fully realized now in the world, or is there more that it could go, are there more things that it could do?lt: so, i'm of two minds there. i think one reason open source works so well in code is that at the end of the day, code tends to be somewhat black and white. there's often a fairly good way to decide, this is done correctly and this is not done well. code either works or it doesn't, which means that there's less room for arguments. and we have arguments despite this, right? in many other areas — i mean, people have talked about open politics and things like that — and it's really hard sometimes to say that, yes, you can apply the same principles in some other areas just because the black and white turns into not just gray, but different colors.so, obviously open source in science is making a comeback. science was there first. but then science ended up being pretty closed, with very expensive journals and some of that going on. and open source is making a comeback in science, with things like arxiv and open journals. wikipedia changed the world, too. so there are other examples, i'm sure there are more to come.ca: but you're not a visionary, and so it's not up to you to name them.lt: no. it's up to you guys to make them, right?ca: exactly.linus torvalds, thank you for linux, thank you for the internet, thank you for all those android phones.thank you for coming here to ted and revealing so much of yourself.lt: thank you. <title = "What does it mean to be a citizen of the world?">
<tags = "['activism', 'big problems', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'humanity', 'identity', 'inequality', 'policy', 'politics', 'social change', 'social media']">
<occupation = "Humanitarian">
i want to introduce you to an amazing woman. her name is davinia. davinia was born in jamaica, emigrated to the us at the age of 18, and now lives just outside of washington, dc. she's not a high-powered political staffer, nor a lobbyist. she'd probably tell you she's quite unremarkable, but she's having the most remarkable impact. what's incredible about davinia is that she's willing to spend time every single week focused on people who are not her: people not her in her neighborhood, her state, nor even in her country — people she'd likely never meet.davinia's impact started a few years ago when she reached out to all of her friends on facebook, and asked them to donate their pennies so she could fund girls' education. she wasn't expecting a huge response, but 700,000 pennies later, she's now sent over 120 girls to school. when we spoke last week, she told me she's become a little infamous at the local bank every time she rocks up with a shopping cart full of pennies.now — davinia is not alone. far from it. she's part of a growing movement. and there's a name for people like davinia: global citizens. a global citizen is someone who self-identifies first and foremost not as a member of a state, a tribe or a nation, but as a member of the human race, and someone who is prepared to act on that belief, to tackle our world's greatest challenges. our work is focused on finding, supporting and activating global citizens. they exist in every country and among every demographic.i want to make the case to you today that the world's future depends on global citizens. i'm convinced that if we had more global citizens active in our world, then every single one of the major challenges we face — from poverty, climate change, gender inequality — these issues become solvable. they are ultimately global issues, and they can ultimately only be solved by global citizens demanding global solutions from their leaders.now, some people's immediate reaction to this idea is that it's either a bit utopian or even threatening. so i'd like to share with you a little of my story today, how i ended up here, how it connects with davinia and, hopefully, with you.growing up in melbourne, australia, i was one of those seriously irritating little kids that never, ever stopped asking, "why?" you might have been one yourself. i used to ask my mum the most annoying questions. i'd ask her questions like, "mum, why i can't i dress up and play with puppets all day?" "why do you want fries with that?" "what is a shrimp, and why do we have to keep throwing them on the barbie?" "and mum — this haircut. why?" the worst haircut, i think. still terrible.as a "why" kid, i thought i could change the world, and it was impossible to convince me otherwise. and when i was 12 and in my first year of high school, i started raising money for communities in the developing world. we were a really enthusiastic group of kids, and we raised more money than any other school in australia. and so i was awarded the chance to go to the philippines to learn more. it was 1998. we were taken into a slum in the outskirts of manila. it was there i became friends with sonny boy, who lived on what was literally a pile of steaming garbage. "smoky mountain" was what they called it. but don't let the romance of that name fool you, because it was nothing more than a rancid landfill that kids like sonny boy spent hours rummaging through every single day to find something, anything of value.that night with sonny boy and his family changed my life forever, because when it came time to go to sleep, we simply laid down on this concrete slab the size of half my bedroom with myself, sonny boy, and the rest of his family, seven of us in this long line, with the smell of rubbish all around us and cockroaches crawling all around. and i didn't sleep a wink, but i lay awake thinking to myself, "why should anyone have to live like this when i have so much? why should sonny boy's ability to live out his dreams be determined by where he's born, or what warren buffett called 'the ovarian lottery?'" i just didn't get it, and i needed to understand why.now, i only later came to understand that the poverty i'd seen in the philippines was the result of decisions made or not made, man-made, by a succession of colonial powers and corrupt governments who had anything but the interests of sonny boy at heart. sure, they didn't create smoky mountain, but they may as well have. and if we're to try to help kids like sonny boy, it wouldn't work just to try to send him a few dollars or to try to clean up the garbage dump on which he lived, because the core of the problem lay elsewhere. and as i worked on community development projects over the coming years trying to help build schools, train teachers, and tackle hiv and aids, i came to see that community development should be driven by communities themselves, and that although charity is necessary, it's not sufficient. we need to confront these challenges on a global scale and in a systemic way. and the best thing i could do is try to mobilize a large group of citizens back home to insist that our leaders engage in that systemic change.that's why, a few years later, i joined with a group of college friends in bringing the make poverty history campaign to australia. we had this dream of staging this small concert around the time of the g20 with local aussie artists, and it suddenly exploded one day when we got a phone call from bono, the edge and pearl jam, who all agreed to headline our concert. i got a little bit excited that day, as you can see. but to our amazement, the australian government heard our collective voices, and they agreed to double investment into global health and development — an additional 6.2 billion dollars. it felt like — it felt like this incredible validation. by rallying citizens together, we helped persuade our government to do the unthinkable, and act to fix a problem miles outside of our borders.but here's the thing: it didn't last. see, there was a change in government, and six years later, all that new money disappeared. what did we learn? we learned that one-off spikes are not enough. we needed a sustainable movement, not one that is susceptible to the fluctuating moods of a politician or the hint of an economic downturn. and it needed to happen everywhere; otherwise, every individual government would have this built-in excuse mechanism that they couldn't possibly carry the burden of global action alone.and so this is what we embarked upon. and as we embarked upon this challenge, we asked ourselves, how do we gain enough pressure and build a broad enough army to win these fights for the long term? we could only think of one way. we needed to somehow turn that short-term excitement of people involved with the make poverty history campaign into long-term passion. it had to be part of their identity. so in 2012, we cofounded an organization that had exactly that as its goal. and there was only one name for it: global citizen.but this is not about any one organization. this is about citizens taking action. and research data tells us that of the total population who even care about global issues, only 18 percent have done anything about it. it's not that people don't want to act. it's often that they don't know how to take action, or that they believe that their actions will have no effect. so we had to somehow recruit and activate millions of citizens in dozens of countries to put pressure on their leaders to behave altruistically.and as we did so, we discovered something really thrilling, that when you make global citizenship your mission, you suddenly find yourself with some extraordinary allies. see, extreme poverty isn't the only issue that's fundamentally global. so, too, is climate change, human rights, gender equality, even conflict. we found ourselves shoulder to shoulder with people who are passionate about targeting all these interrelated issues.but how did we actually go about recruiting and engaging those global citizens? well, we used the universal language: music. we launched the global citizen festival in the heart of new york city in central park, and we persuaded some of the world's biggest artists to participate. we made sure that these festivals coincided with the un general assembly meeting, so that leaders who need to hear our voices couldn't possible ignore them.but there was a twist: you couldn't buy a ticket. you had to earn it. you had to take action on behalf of a global cause, and only once you'd done that could you earn enough points to qualify. activism is the currency. i had no interest in citizenship purely as some sort of feel-good thing. for me, citizenship means you have to act, and that's what we required. and amazingly, it worked. last year, more than 155,000 citizens in the new york area alone earned enough points to qualify. globally, we've now signed up citizens in over 150 countries around the world. and last year, we signed up more than 100,000 new members each and every week of the whole year.see, we don't need to create global citizens from nothing. we're already everywhere. we just need to be organized and motivated to start acting. and this is where i believe we can learn a lot from davinia, who started taking action as a global citizen back in 2012. here's what she did. it wasn't rocket science. she started writing letters, emailing politicians' offices. she volunteered her time in her local community. that's when she got active on social media and started to collect pennies — a lot of pennies.now, maybe that doesn't sound like a lot to you. how will that achieve anything? well, it achieved a lot because she wasn't alone. her actions, alongside 142,000 other global citizens', led the us government to double their investment into global partnership for education. and here's dr. raj shah, the head of usaid, making that announcement. see, when thousands of global citizens find inspiration from each other, it's amazing to see their collective power. global citizens like davinia helped persuade the world bank to boost their investment into water and sanitation. here's the bank's president jim kim announcing 15 billion dollars onstage at global citizen, and prime minister modi of india affirmed his commitment to put a toilet in every household and school across india by 2019. global citizens encouraged by the late-night host stephen colbert launched a twitter invasion on norway. erna solberg, the country's prime minister, got the message, committing to double investment into girls' education. global citizens together with rotarians called on the canadian, uk, and australian governments to boost their investment into polio eradication. they got together and committed 665 million dollars.but despite all of this momentum, we face some huge challenges. see, you might be thinking to yourself, how can we possibly persuade world leaders to sustain a focus on global issues? indeed, the powerful american politician tip o'neill once said, "all politics is local." that's what always got politicians elected: to seek, gain and hold onto power through the pursuit of local or at very best national interests.i experienced this for the first time when i was 21 years old. i took a meeting with a then-australian foreign minister who shall remain nameless —[alexander downer] and behind closed doors, i shared with him my passion to end extreme poverty. i said, "minister — australia has this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to help achieve the millennium development goals. we can do this." and he paused, looked down on me with cold, dismissive eyes, and he said, "hugh, no one gives a funk about foreign aid." except he didn't use the word "funk." he went on. he said we need to look after our own backyard first.this is, i believe, outdated, even dangerous thinking. or as my late grandfather would say, complete bs. parochialism offers this false dichotomy because it pits the poor in one country against the poor in another. it pretends we can isolate ourselves and our nations from one another. the whole world is our backyard, and we ignore it at our peril. see, look what happened when we ignored rwanda, when we ignore syria, when we ignore climate change. political leaders ought to give a "funk" because the impact of climate change and extreme poverty comes right to our shore.now, global citizens — they understand this. we live in a time that favors the global citizen, in an age where every single voice can be heard. see, do you remember when the millennium development goals were signed back in the year 2000? the most we could do in those days was fire off a letter and wait for the next election. there was no social media. today, billions of citizens have more tools, more access to information, more capacity to influence than ever before. both the problems and the tools to solve them are right before us. the world has changed, and those of us who look beyond our borders are on the right side of history.so where are we? so we run this amazing festival, we've scored some big policy wins, and citizens are signing up all over the world. but have we achieved our mission? no. we have such a long way to go.but this is the opportunity that i see. the concept of global citizenship, self-evident in its logic but until now impractical in many ways, has coincided with this particular moment in which we are privileged to live. we, as global citizens, now have a unique opportunity to accelerate large-scale positive change around the world. so in the months and years ahead, global citizens will hold world leaders accountable to ensure that the new global goals for sustainable development are tracked and implemented. global citizens will partner with the world's leading ngos to end diseases like polio and malaria. global citizens will sign up in every corner of this globe, increasing the frequency, quality and impact of their actions. these dreams are within reach. imagine an army of millions growing into tens of millions, connected, informed, engaged and unwilling to take no for an answer.over all these years, i've tried to reconnect with sonny boy. sadly, i've been unable to. we met long before social media, and his address has now been relocated by the authorities, as often happens with slums. i'd love to sit down with him, wherever he is, and share with him how much the time i spent on smoky mountain inspired me. thanks to him and so many others, i came to understand the importance of being part of a movement of people — the kids willing to look up from their screens and out to the world, the global citizens. global citizens who stand together, who ask the question "why?," who reject the naysayers, and embrace the amazing possibilities of the world we share.i'm a global citizen.are you?thank you. <title = "Your kids might live on Mars. Here's how they'll survive">
<tags = "['Mars', 'NASA', 'TED Books', 'architecture', 'climate change', 'engineering', 'environment', 'exploration', 'future', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'industrial design', 'invention', 'life', 'population', 'potential', 'prediction', 'rocket science', 'science', 'solar system', 'space', 'technology', 'transportation']">
<occupation = "Technology forecaster ">
strap yourselves in, we're going to mars.not just a few astronauts — thousands of people are going to colonize mars. and i am telling you that they're going to do this soon. some of you will end up working on projects on mars, and i guarantee that some of your children will end up living there.that probably sounds preposterous, so i'm going to share with you how and when that will happen. but first i want to discuss the obvious question: why the heck should we do this?12 years ago, i gave a ted talk on 10 ways the world could end suddenly. we are incredibly vulnerable to the whims of our own galaxy. a single, large asteroid could take us out forever. to survive we have to reach beyond the home planet. think what a tragedy it would be if all that humans have accomplished were suddenly obliterated.and there's another reason we should go: exploration is in our dna. two million years ago humans evolved in africa and then slowly but surely spread out across the entire planet by reaching into the wilderness that was beyond their horizons. this stuff is inside us. and they prospered doing that. some of the greatest advances in civilization and technology came because we explored.yes, we could do a lot of good with the money it will take to establish a thriving colony on mars. and yes we should all be taking far better care of our own home planet. and yes, i worry we could screw up mars the way we've screwed up earth.but think for a moment, what we had when john f. kennedy told us we would put a human on the moon. he excited an entire generation to dream. think how inspired we will be to see a landing on mars. perhaps then we will look back at earth and see that that is one people instead of many and perhaps then we will look back at earth, as we struggle to survive on mars, and realize how precious the home planet is.so let me tell you about the extraordinary adventure we're about to undertake. but first, a few fascinating facts about where we're going. this picture actually represents the true size of mars compared to earth. mars is not our sister planet. it's far less than half the size of the earth, and yet despite the fact that it's smaller, the surface area of mars that you can stand on is equivalent to the surface area of the earth that you can stand on, because the earth is mostly covered by water.the atmosphere on mars is really thin — 100 times thinner than on earth — and it's not breathable, it's 96 percent carbon dioxide.it's really cold there. the average temperature is minus 81 degrees, although there is quite a range of temperature.a day on mars is about as long as a day on earth, plus about 39 minutes. seasons and years on mars are twice as long as they are on earth.and for anybody who wants to strap on some wings and go flying one day, mars has a lot less gravity than on earth, and it's the kind of place where you can jump over your car instead of walk around it.now, as you can see, mars isn't exactly earth-like, but it's by far the most livable other place in our entire solar system.here's the problem. mars is a long way away, a thousand times farther away from us than our own moon. the moon is 250,000 miles away and it took apollo astronauts three days to get there. mars is 250 million miles away and it will take us eight months to get there — 240 days. and that's only if we launch on a very specific day, at a very specific time, once every two years, when mars and the earth are aligned just so, so the distance that the rocket would have to travel will be the shortest. 240 days is a long time to spend trapped with your colleagues in a tin can.and meanwhile, our track record of getting to mars is lousy. we and the russians, the europeans, the japanese, the chinese and the indians, have actually sent 44 rockets there, and the vast majority of them have either missed or crashed. only about a third of the missions to mars have been successful.and we don't at the moment have a rocket big enough to get there anyway. we once had that rocket, the saturn v. a couple of saturn vs would have gotten us there. it was the most magnificent machine ever built by humans, and it was the rocket that took us to the moon. but the last saturn v was used in 1973 to launch the skylab space station, and we decided to do something called the shuttle instead of continuing on to mars after we landed on the moon. the biggest rocket we have now is only half big enough to get us anything to mars.so getting to mars is not going to be easy and that brings up a really interesting question ... how soon will the first humans actually land here?now, some pundits think if we got there by 2050, that'd be a pretty good achievement.these days, nasa seems to be saying that it can get humans to mars by 2040. maybe they can. i believe that they can get human beings into mars orbit by 2035. but frankly, i don't think they're going to bother in 2035 to send a rocket to mars, because we will already be there.we're going to land on mars in 2027. and the reason is this man is determined to make that happen. his name is elon musk, he's the ceo of tesla motors and spacex. now, he actually told me that we would land on mars by 2025, but elon musk is more optimistic than i am — and that's going a ways — so i'm giving him a couple of years of slack. still ... you've got to ask yourself, can this guy really do this by 2025 or 2027?well, let's put a decade with elon musk into a little perspective. where was this 10 years ago? that's the tesla electric automobile. in 2005, a lot of people in the automobile industry were saying, we would not have a decent electric car for 50 years.and where was that? that is spacex's falcon 9 rocket, lifting six tons of supplies to the international space station. 10 years ago, spacex had not launched anything, or fired a rocket to anywhere. so i think it's a pretty good bet that the person who is revolutionizing the automobile industry in less than 10 years and the person who created an entire rocket company in less than 10 years will get us to mars by 2027.now, you need to know this: governments and robots no longer control this game. private companies are leaping into space and they will be happy to take you to mars.and that raises a really big question. can we actually live there? now, nasa may not be able to get us there until 2040, or we may get there a long time before nasa, but nasa has taken a huge responsibility in figuring out how we can live on mars.let's look at the problem this way. here's what you need to live on earth: food, water, shelter and clothing. and here's what you need to live on mars: all of the above, plus oxygen.so let's look at the most important thing on this list first. water is the basis of all life as we know it, and it's far too heavy for us to carry water from the earth to mars to live, so we have to find water if our life is going to succeed on mars. and if you look at mars, it looks really dry, it looks like the entire planet is a desert. but it turns out that it's not. the soil alone on mars contains up to 60 percent water. and a number of orbiters that we still have flying around mars have shown us — and by the way, that's a real photograph — that lots of craters on mars have a sheet of water ice in them. it's not a bad place to start a colony.now, here's a view of a little dig the phoenix lander did in 2008, showing that just below the surface of the soil is ice — that white stuff is ice. in the second picture, which is four days later than the first picture, you can see that some of it is evaporating.orbiters also tell us that there are huge amounts of underground water on mars as well as glaciers. in fact, if only the water ice at the poles on mars melted, most of the planet would be under 30 feet of water. so there's plenty of water there, but most of it's ice, most of it's underground, it takes a lot of energy to get it and a lot of human labor.this is a device cooked up at the university of washington back in 1998. it's basically a low-tech dehumidifier. and it turns out the mars atmosphere is often 100 percent humid. so this device can extract all the water that humans will need simply from the atmosphere on mars.next we have to worry about what we will breathe. frankly, i was really shocked to find out that nasa has this problem worked out. this is a scientist at mit named michael hecht. and he's developed this machine, moxie. i love this thing. it's a reverse fuel cell, essentially, that sucks in the martian atmosphere and pumps out oxygen. and you have to remember that co2 — carbon dioxide, which is 96 percent of mars' atmosphere — co2 is basically 78 percent oxygen.now, the next big rover that nasa sends to mars in 2020 is going to have one of these devices aboard, and it will be able to produce enough oxygen to keep one person alive indefinitely. but the secret to this — and that's just for testing — the secret to this is that this thing was designed from the get-go to be scalable by a factor of 100.next, what will we eat? well, we'll use hydroponics to grow food, but we're not going to be able to grow more than 15 to 20 percent of our food there, at least not until water is running on the surface of mars and we actually have the probability and the capability of planting crops. in the meantime, most of our food will arrive from earth, and it will be dried.and then we need some shelter. at first we can use inflatable, pressurized buildings as well as the landers themselves. but this really only works during the daytime. there is too much solar radiation and too much radiation from cosmic rays. so we really have to go underground.now, it turns out that the soil on mars, by and large, is perfect for making bricks. and nasa has figured this one out, too. they're going to throw some polymer plastic into the bricks, shove them in a microwave oven, and then you will be able to build buildings with really thick walls. or we may choose to live underground in caves or in lava tubes, of which there are plenty.and finally there's clothing. on earth we have miles of atmosphere piled up on us, which creates 15 pounds of pressure on our bodies at all times, and we're constantly pushing out against that. on mars there's hardly any atmospheric pressure. so dava newman, a scientist at mit, has created this sleek space suit. it will keep us together, block radiation and keep us warm.so let's think about this for a minute. food, shelter, clothing, water, oxygen ... we can do this. we really can. but it's still a little complicated and a little difficult.so that leads to the next big — really big step — in living the good life on mars. and that's terraforming the planet: making it more like earth, reengineering an entire planet.that sounds like a lot of hubris, but the truth is that the technology to do everything i'm about to tell you already exists.first we've got to warm it up. mars is incredibly cold because it has a very thin atmosphere. the answer lies here, at the south pole and at the north pole of mars, both of which are covered with an incredible amount of frozen carbon dioxide — dry ice. if we heat it up, it sublimes directly into the atmosphere and thickens the atmosphere the same way it does on earth.and as we know, co2 is an incredibly potent greenhouse gas. now, my favorite way of doing this is to erect a very, very large solar sail and focus it — it essentially serves as a mirror — and focus it on the south pole of mars at first. as the planet spins, it will heat up all that dry ice, sublime it, and it will go into the atmosphere. it actually won't take long for the temperature on mars to start rising, probably less than 20 years.right now, on a perfect day at the equator, in the middle of summer on mars, temperatures can actually reach 70 degrees, but then they go down to minus 100 at night. what we're shooting for is a runaway greenhouse effect: enough temperature rise to see a lot of that ice on mars — especially the ice in the ground — melt. then we get some real magic.as the atmosphere gets thicker, everything gets better. we get more protection from radiation, more atmosphere makes us warmer, makes the planet warmer, so we get running water and that makes crops possible. then more water vapor goes into the air, forming yet another potent greenhouse gas. it will rain and it will snow on mars. and a thicker atmosphere will create enough pressure so that we can throw away those space suits. we only need about five pounds of pressure to survive. eventually, mars will be made to feel a lot like british columbia.we'll still be left with the complicated problem of making the atmosphere breathable, and frankly that could take 1,000 years to accomplish. but humans are amazingly smart and incredibly adaptable.there is no telling what our future technology will be able to accomplish and no telling what we can do with our own bodies. in biology right now, we are on the very verge of being able to control our own genetics, what the genes in our own bodies are doing, and certainly, eventually, our own evolution. we could end up with a species of human being on earth that is slightly different from the species of human beings on mars.but what would you do there? how would you live? it's going to be the same as it is on earth. somebody's going to start a restaurant, somebody's going to build an iron foundry. someone will make documentary movies of mars and sell them on earth. some idiot will start a reality tv show. there will be software companies, there will be hotels, there will be bars.this much is certain: it will be the most disruptive event in our lifetimes, and i think it will be the most inspiring.ask any 10-year-old girl if she wants to go to mars. children who are now in elementary school are going to choose to live there.remember when we landed humans on the moon? when that happened, people looked at each other and said, "if we can do this, we can do anything." what are they going to think when we actually form a colony on mars?most importantly, it will make us a spacefaring species. and that means humans will survive no matter what happens on earth. we will never be the last of our kind.thank you. <title = "A new superweapon in the fight against cancer">
<tags = "['big problems', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'cancer', 'disease', 'engineering', 'genetics', 'health', 'invention', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'microbiology', 'nanoscale', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Medical researcher and educator ">
cancer affects all of us — especially the ones that come back over and over again, the highly invasive and drug-resistant ones, the ones that defy medical treatment, even when we throw our best drugs at them. engineering at the molecular level, working at the smallest of scales, can provide exciting new ways to fight the most aggressive forms of cancer.cancer is a very clever disease. there are some forms of cancer, which, fortunately, we've learned how to address relatively well with known and established drugs and surgery. but there are some forms of cancer that don't respond to these approaches, and the tumor survives or comes back, even after an onslaught of drugs.we can think of these very aggressive forms of cancer as kind of supervillains in a comic book. they're clever, they're adaptable, and they're very good at staying alive. and, like most supervillains these days, their superpowers come from a genetic mutation. the genes that are modified inside these tumor cells can enable and encode for new and unimagined modes of survival, allowing the cancer cell to live through even our best chemotherapy treatments.one example is a trick in which a gene allows a cell, even as the drug approaches the cell, to push the drug out, before the drug can have any effect. imagine — the cell effectively spits out the drug. this is just one example of the many genetic tricks in the bag of our supervillain, cancer. all due to mutant genes.so, we have a supervillain with incredible superpowers. and we need a new and powerful mode of attack. actually, we can turn off a gene. the key is a set of molecules known as sirna. sirna are short sequences of genetic code that guide a cell to block a certain gene. each sirna molecule can turn off a specific gene inside the cell. for many years since its discovery, scientists have been very excited about how we can apply these gene blockers in medicine.but, there is a problem. sirna works well inside the cell. but if it gets exposed to the enzymes that reside in our bloodstream or our tissues, it degrades within seconds. it has to be packaged, protected through its journey through the body on its way to the final target inside the cancer cell.so, here's our strategy. first, we'll dose the cancer cell with sirna, the gene blocker, and silence those survival genes, and then we'll whop it with a chemo drug. but how do we carry that out? using molecular engineering, we can actually design a superweapon that can travel through the bloodstream. it has to be tiny enough to get through the bloodstream, it's got to be small enough to penetrate the tumor tissue, and it's got to be tiny enough to be taken up inside the cancer cell. to do this job well, it has to be about one one-hundredth the size of a human hair.let's take a closer look at how we can build this nanoparticle. first, let's start with the nanoparticle core. it's a tiny capsule that contains the chemotherapy drug. this is the poison that will actually end the tumor cell's life. around this core, we'll wrap a very thin, nanometers-thin blanket of sirna. this is our gene blocker. because sirna is strongly negatively charged, we can protect it with a nice, protective layer of positively charged polymer. the two oppositely charged molecules stick together through charge attraction, and that provides us with a protective layer that prevents the sirna from degrading in the bloodstream. we're almost done. but there is one more big obstacle we have to think about. in fact, it may be the biggest obstacle of all. how do we deploy this superweapon? i mean, every good weapon needs to be targeted, we have to target this superweapon to the supervillain cells that reside in the tumor.but our bodies have a natural immune-defense system: cells that reside in the bloodstream and pick out things that don't belong, so that it can destroy or eliminate them. and guess what? our nanoparticle is considered a foreign object. we have to sneak our nanoparticle past the tumor defense system. we have to get it past this mechanism of getting rid of the foreign object by disguising it.so we add one more negatively charged layer around this nanoparticle, which serves two purposes. first, this outer layer is one of the naturally charged, highly hydrated polysaccharides that resides in our body. it creates a cloud of water molecules around the nanoparticle that gives us an invisibility cloaking effect. this invisibility cloak allows the nanoparticle to travel through the bloodstream long and far enough to reach the tumor, without getting eliminated by the body.second, this layer contains molecules which bind specifically to our tumor cell. once bound, the cancer cell takes up the nanoparticle, and now we have our nanoparticle inside the cancer cell and ready to deploy.alright! i feel the same way. let's go! the sirna is deployed first. it acts for hours, giving enough time to silence and block those survival genes. we have now disabled those genetic superpowers. what remains is a cancer cell with no special defenses. then, the chemotherapy drug comes out of the core and destroys the tumor cell cleanly and efficiently. with sufficient gene blockers, we can address many different kinds of mutations, allowing the chance to sweep out tumors, without leaving behind any bad guys.so, how does our strategy work? we've tested these nanostructure particles in animals using a highly aggressive form of triple-negative breast cancer. this triple-negative breast cancer exhibits the gene that spits out cancer drug as soon as it is delivered.usually, doxorubicin — let's call it "dox" — is the cancer drug that is the first line of treatment for breast cancer. so, we first treated our animals with a dox core, dox only. the tumor slowed their rate of growth, but they still grew rapidly, doubling in size over a period of two weeks.then, we tried our combination superweapon. a nanolayer particle with sirna against the chemo pump, plus, we have the dox in the core. and look — we found that not only did the tumors stop growing, they actually decreased in size and were eliminated in some cases. the tumors were actually regressing. what's great about this approach is that it can be personalized. we can add many different layers of sirna to address different mutations and tumor defense mechanisms. and we can put different drugs into the nanoparticle core. as doctors learn how to test patients and understand certain tumor genetic types, they can help us determine which patients can benefit from this strategy and which gene blockers we can use.ovarian cancer strikes a special chord with me. it is a very aggressive cancer, in part because it's discovered at very late stages, when it's highly advanced and there are a number of genetic mutations. after the first round of chemotherapy, this cancer comes back for 75 percent of patients. and it usually comes back in a drug-resistant form. high-grade ovarian cancer is one of the biggest supervillains out there. and we're now directing our superweapon toward its defeat.as a researcher, i usually don't get to work with patients. but i recently met a mother who is an ovarian cancer survivor, mimi, and her daughter, paige. i was deeply inspired by the optimism and strength that both mother and daughter displayed and by their story of courage and support. at this event, we spoke about the different technologies directed at cancer. and mimi was in tears as she explained how learning about these efforts gives her hope for future generations, including her own daughter. this really touched me. it's not just about building really elegant science. it's about changing people's lives. it's about understanding the power of engineering on the scale of molecules.i know that as students like paige move forward in their careers, they'll open new possibilities in addressing some of the big health problems in the world — including ovarian cancer, neurological disorders, infectious disease — just as chemical engineering has found a way to open doors for me, and has provided a way of engineering on the tiniest scale, that of molecules, to heal on the human scale.thank you. <title = "The unexpected benefit of celebrating failure">
<tags = "['big problems', 'collaboration', 'creativity', 'design', 'engineering', 'exploration', 'failure', 'future', 'global issues', 'invention', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'potential', 'product design', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur, inventor, author">
in 1962 at rice university, jfk told the country about a dream he had, a dream to put a person on the moon by the end of the decade. the eponymous moonshot.no one knew if it was possible to do but he made sure a plan was put in place to do it if it was possible. that's how great dreams are. great dreams aren't just visions, they're visions coupled to strategies for making them real.i have the incredible good fortune to work at a moonshot factory. at x — formerly called google x — you'll find an aerospace engineer working alongside a fashion designer and former military ops commanders brainstorming with laser experts. these inventors, engineers and makers are dreaming up technologies that we hope can make the world a wonderful place.we use the word "moonshots" to remind us to keep our visions big — to keep dreaming. and we use the word "factory" to remind ourselves that we want to have concrete visions — concrete plans to make them real.here's our moonshot blueprint. number one: we want to find a huge problem in the world that affects many millions of people. number two: we want to find or propose a radical solution for solving that problem. and then number three: there has to be some reason to believe that the technology for such a radical solution could actually be built.but i have a secret for you. the moonshot factory is a messy place. but rather than avoid the mess, pretend it's not there, we've tried to make that our strength. we spend most of our time breaking things and trying to prove that we're wrong. that's it, that's the secret. run at all the hardest parts of the problem first. get excited and cheer, "hey! how are we going to kill our project today?"we've got this interesting balance going where we allow our unchecked optimism to fuel our visions. but then we also harness enthusiastic skepticism to breathe life, breathe reality into those visions.i want to show you a few of the projects that we've had to leave behind on the cutting room floor, and also a few of the gems that at least so far, have not only survived that process, but have been accelerated by it.last year we killed a project in automated vertical farming. this is some of the lettuce that we grew. one in nine people in the world suffers from undernourishment. so this is a moonshot that needs to happen. vertical farming uses 10 times less water and a hundred times less land than conventional farming. and because you can grow the food close to where it's consumed, you don't have to transport it large distances. we made progress in a lot of the areas like automated harvesting and efficient lighting. but unfortunately, we couldn't get staple crops like grains and rice to grow this way. so we killed the project.here's another huge problem. we pay enormous costs in resources and environmental damage to ship goods worldwide. economic development of landlocked countries is limited by lack of shipping infrastructure. the radical solution? a lighter-than-air, variable-buoyancy cargo ship. this has the potential to lower, at least overall, the cost, time and carbon footprint of shipping without needing runways. we came up with this clever set of technical breakthroughs that together might make it possible for us to lower the cost enough that we could actually make these ships — inexpensively enough in volume. but however cheap they would have been to make in volume it turned out that it was going to cost close to 200 million dollars to design and build the first one.200 million dollars is just way too expensive. because x is structured with these tight feedback loops of making mistakes and learning and new designs, we can't spend 200 million dollars to get the first data point about whether we're on the right track or not. if there's an achilles' heel in one our projects, we want to know it now, up front, not way down the road. so we killed this project, too.discovering a major flaw in a project doesn't always mean that it ends the project. sometimes it actually gets us onto a more productive path.this is our fully self-driving vehicle prototype, which we built without a steering wheel or break pedal. but that wasn't actually our goal when we started.with 1.2 million people dying on the roads globally every year, building a car that drives itself was a natural moonshot to take. three and a half years ago, when we had these lexus, retrofitted, self-driving cars in testing, they were doing so well, we gave them out to other googlers to find out what they thought of the experience. and what we discovered was that our plan to have the cars do almost all the driving and just hand over to the users in case of emergency was a really bad plan. it wasn't safe because the users didn't do their job. they didn't stay alert in case the car needed to hand control back to them.this was a major crisis for the team. it sent them back to the drawing board. and they came up with a beautiful, new perspective. aim for a car where you're truly a passenger. you tell the car where you want to go, you push a button and it takes you from point a to point b by itself.we're really grateful that we had this insight as early on in the project as we did. and it's shaped everything we've done since then. and now our cars have self-driven more than 1.4 million miles, and they're out everyday on the streets of mountain view, california and austin, texas.the cars team shifted their perspective. this is one of x's mantras. sometimes shifting your perspective is more powerful than being smart.take wind energy. it's one of my favorite examples of perspective shifting. there's no way that we're going to build a better standard wind turbine than the experts in that industry. but we found a way to get up higher into the sky, and so get access to faster, more consistent winds, and so more energy without needing hundreds of tons of steel to get there.our makani energy kite rises up from its perch by spinning up those propellers along its wing. and it pulls out a tether as it rises, pulling energy up through the tether. once the tether's all the way out, it goes into crosswind circles in the sky. and now those propellers that lifted it up have become flying turbines. and that sends energy back down the tether.we haven't yet found a way to kill this project. and the longer it survives that pressure, the more excited we get that this could become a cheaper and more deployable form of wind energy for the world.probably the craziest sounding project we have is project loon. we're trying to make balloon-powered internet. a network of balloons in the stratosphere that beam an internet connection down to rural and remote areas of the world. this could bring online as many as four billion more people, who today have little or no internet connection.but you can't just take a cell tower, strap it to a balloon and stick it in the sky. the winds are too strong, it would be blown away. and the balloons are too high up to tie it to the ground.here comes the crazy moment. what if, instead, we let the balloons drift and we taught them how to sail the winds to go where the needed to go? it turns out the stratosphere has winds that are going in quite different speeds and directions in thin strata. so we hoped that using smart algorithms and wind data from around the world, we could maneuver the balloons a bit, getting them to go up and down just a tiny bit in the stratosphere to grab those winds going in those different directions and speeds. the idea is to have enough balloons so as one balloon floats out of your area, there's another balloon ready to float into place, handing off the internet connection, just like your phone hands off between cell towers as you drive down the freeway.we get how crazy that vision sounds — there's the name of the project to remind us of that. so since 2012, the loon team has prioritized the work that seems the most difficult and so the most likely to kill their project.the first thing that they did was try to get a wi-fi connection from a balloon in the stratosphere down to an antenna on the ground. it worked. and i promise you there were bets that it wasn't going to. so we kept going.could we get the balloon to talk directly to handsets, so that we didn't need the antenna as an intermediary receiver? yeah.could we get the balloon bandwidth high enough so it was a real internet connection? so that people could have something more than just sms? the early tests weren't even a megabit per second, but now we can do up to 15 megabits per second. enough to watch a ted talk.could we get the balloons to talk to each other through the sky so that we could reach our signal deeper into rural areas? check.could we get balloons the size of a house to stay up for more than 100 days, while costing less than five percent of what traditional, long-life balloons have cost to make? yes. in the end. but i promise you, you name it, we had to try it to get there. we made round, silvery balloons. we made giant pillow-shaped balloons. we made balloons the size of a blue whale. we busted a lot of balloons. since one of the things that was most likely to kill the loon project was whether we could guide the balloons through the sky, one of our most important experiments was putting a balloon inside a balloon.so there are two compartments here, one with air and then one with helium. the balloon pumps air in to make itself heavier, or lets air out to make it lighter. and these weight changes allow it to rise or fall, and that simple movement of the balloon is its steering mechanism. it floats up or down, hoping to grab winds going in the speed and direction that it wants.but is that good enough for it to navigate through the world? barely at first, but better all the time.this particular balloon, our latest balloon, can navigate a two-mile vertical stretch of sky and can sail itself to within 500 meters of where it wants to go from 20,000 kilometers away.we have lots more to do in terms of fine-tuning the system and reducing costs. but last year, a balloon built inexpensively went around the world 19 times over 187 days. so we're going to keep going. our balloons today are doing pretty much everything a complete system needs to do. we're in discussions with telcos around the world, and we're going to fly over places like indonesia for real service testing this year.this probably all sounds too good to be true, and you're right. being audacious and working on big, risky things makes people inherently uncomfortable.you cannot yell at people and force them to fail fast. people resist. they worry. "what will happen to me if i fail? will people laugh at me? will i be fired?"i started with our secret. i'm going to leave you with how we actually make it happen. the only way to get people to work on big, risky things — audacious ideas — and have them run at all the hardest parts of the problem first, is if you make that the path of least resistance for them.we work hard at x to make it safe to fail. teams kill their ideas as soon as the evidence is on the table because they're rewarded for it. they get applause from their peers. hugs and high fives from their manager, me in particular. they get promoted for it. we have bonused every single person on teams that ended their projects, from teams as small as two to teams of more than 30.we believe in dreams at the moonshot factory. but enthusiastic skepticism is not the enemy of boundless optimism. it's optimism's perfect partner. it unlocks the potential in every idea. we can create the future that's in our dreams.thank you very much. <title = "The nit-picking glory of The New Yorker's Comma Queen">
<tags = "['communication', 'composing', 'grammar', 'journalism', 'language', 'storytelling', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Copy editor">
i have spent the past 38 years trying to be invisible. i'm a copy editor. i work at the new yorker, and copyediting for the new yorker is like playing shortstop for a major league baseball team: every little movement gets picked over by the critics — god forbid you should commit an error.just to clarify: copy editors don't choose what goes into the magazine. we work at the level of the sentence, maybe the paragraph, the words, the punctuation. our business is in the details. we put the diaeresis, the double dot, over the "i" in "naïve." we impose house style. every publication has a house style. the new yorker's is particularly distinctive. we sometimes get teased for our style. imagine — we still spell "teen-ager" with a hyphen, as if that word had just been coined. but you see that hyphen in "teen-age" and that diaeresis over "coöperate," and you know you're reading the new yorker.copyediting at the new yorker is a mechanical process. there is a related role called query proofreading, or page-ok'ing. whereas copyediting is mechanical, query proofreading is interpretive. we make suggestions to the author through the editor to improve the emphasis of a sentence or point out unintentional repetitions and supply compelling alternatives. our purpose is to make the author look good.note that we give our proofs not directly to the author, but to the editor. this often creates a good cop/bad cop dynamic in which the copy editor — i'll use that as an umbrella term — is invariably the bad cop. if we do our job well, we're invisible, but as soon as we make a mistake, we copy editors become glaringly visible. here is the most recent mistake that was laid at my door.[last tuesday, sarah palin, the pre-trump embodiment of populist no-nothingism in the republican party, endorsed trump.]"where were the new yorker's fabled copy editors?" a reader wrote. "didn't the writer mean 'know-nothingism'?"ouch. there's no excuse for this mistake. but i like it: "no-nothingism." it might be american vernacular for "nihilism." here, another reader quotes a passage from the magazine:[ruby was seventy-six, but she retained her authoritative bearing; only her unsteady gait belied her age.]he added: "surely, someone at the new yorker knows the meaning of 'belied,' and that it is the opposite of how it is used in this sentence. come on! get it together."belie: to give a false impression. it should have been "betrayed."e.b. white once wrote of commas in the new yorker: "they fall with the precision of knives outlining a body." and it's true — we get a lot of complaints about commas. "are there really two commas in 'martin luther king, jr., boulevard'?" there may not be on the sign, but yes, that is new yorker style for "jr." one wag wrote:["please, could you expel, or, at least, restrain, the comma-maniac, on your editorial staff?"] ah, well. in this case, those commas are well-placed, except that there should not be one between "maniac" and "on." also, if we must have commas around "at least," we might change it up by using dashes around that phrase: "... — or, at least, restrain —" perfect. then there's this: "love you, love your magazine, but can you please stop writing massive numbers as text?"[two and a half million ...]no. one last cri de coeur from a spelling stickler:["those long stringy things are vocal cords, not chords."]the outraged reader added, "i'm sure i'm not the first to write regarding this egregious proofreading error, but i'm equally sure i won't be the last. fie!" i used to like getting mail.there is a pact between writers and editors. the editor never sells out the writer, never goes public about bad jokes that had to be cut or stories that went on too long. a great editor saves a writer from her excesses. copy editors, too, have a code; we don't advertise our oversights. i feel disloyal divulging them here, so let's have look at what we do right.somehow, i've gotten a reputation for sternness. but i work with writers who know how to have their way with me. i've known ian frazier, or "sandy," since the early 80s. and he's one of my favorites, even though he sometimes writes a sentence that gives a copy editor pause. here is one from a story about staten island after hurricane sandy:[a dock that had been broken in the middle and lost its other half sloped down toward the water, its support pipes and wires leaning forward like when you open a box of linguine and it slides out.] this would never have got past the grammarian in the days of yore. but what could i do? technically, the "like" should be an "as," but it sounds ridiculous, as if the author were about to embark on an extended homeric simile — "as when you open a box of linguine." i decided that the hurricane conferred poetic justice on sandy and let the sentence stand. generally, if i think something is wrong, i query it three times. i told sandy that not long ago in a moment of indiscretion and he said,"only three?"so, he has learned to hold out.recently, he wrote a story for "talk of the town," that's the section at the front of the magazine with short pieces on subjects ranging from ricky jay's exhibit at the metropolitan museum to the introduction of doggie bags in france. sandy's story was about the return to the bronx of supreme court justice sonia sotomayor. there were three things in it that i had to challenge.first, a grammar query. the justice was wearing black and sandy wrote,[her face and hands stood out like in an old, mostly dark painting.]now, unlike with the hurricane, with this "like," the author didn't have the excuse of describing hurricane damage. "like" in this sense is a preposition, and a preposition takes an object, which is a noun. this "like" had to be an "as." "as in an old, mostly dark painting."second, a spelling issue. the author was quoting someone who was assisting the justice:["it will be just a minute. we are getting the justice mic'ed,"]mic'ed? the music industry spells it "mic" because that's how it's spelled on the equipment. i'd never seen it used as a verb with this spelling, and i was distraught to think that "mic'ed" would get into the magazine on my watch. new yorker style for "microphone" in its abbreviated form is "mike."finally, there was a sticky grammar and usage issue in which the pronoun has to have the same grammatical number as its antecedent.[everyone in the vicinity held their breath]"their" is plural and "everyone," its antecedent, is singular. you would never say, "everyone were there." everyone was there. everyone is here. but people say things like, "everyone held their breath" all the time. to give it legitimacy, copy editors call it "the singular 'their,'" as if calling it singular makes it no longer plural. it is my job when i see it in print to do my best to eliminate it. i couldn't make it, "everyone held her breath," or "everyone held his breath," or "everyone held his or her breath." whatever i suggested had to blend in. i asked, through the editor, if the author would consider changing it to "all in the vicinity held their breath," because "all" is plural. nope.i tried again: "all those present held their breath?" i thought this sounded vaguely judicial. but the editor pointed out that we could not have "present" and "presence" in the same sentence. when the final proof came back, the author had accepted "as" for "like," and "miked" for "mic'ed." but on "everyone held their breath," he stood his ground. two out of three isn't bad.in the same issue, in that piece on doggie bags in france, there was the gratuitous use of the f-word by a frenchman. i wonder, when the mail comes in, which will have offended the readers more. thank you. <title = "The inside story of the Paris climate agreement">
<tags = "['alternative energy', 'big problems', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'ebola', 'environment', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'green', 'history', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'law', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'nature', 'pollution', 'population', 'potential', 'security', 'social change', 'society', 'solar energy', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Climate advocate">
i have one more reason for optimism: climate change. maybe you don't believe it, but here is the fact.on december 12, 2015, in paris, under the united nations, 195 governments got together and unanimously — if you've worked with governments, you know how difficult that is — unanimously decided to intentionally change the course of the global economy in order to protect the most vulnerable and improve the life of all of us. now, that is a remarkable achievement. but it is even more remarkable if you consider where we had been just a few years ago. 2009, copenhagen. who remembers copenhagen? well, after years of working toward a climate agreement, the same governments convened in copenhagen and failed miserably.why did it fail miserably? for many different reasons, but primarily because of the deeply entrenched divide between the global north and the global south. so now, six months after this failure, i was called in to assume the responsibility of the global climate change negotiations. you can imagine, the perfect moment to start this new job. the global mood on climate change was in the trash can. no one believed that a global agreement could ever be possible. in fact, neither did i. if you promise not to tell anyone outside of this wonderful ted audience, i'm going to divulge a secret that has been gratefully buried by history. on my first press conference, a journalist asked, "um, ms. figueres, do you think that a global agreement is ever going to be possible?" and without engaging brain, i heard me utter, "not in my lifetime." well, you can imagine the faces of my press team who were horrified at this crazy costa rican woman who was their new boss. and i was horrified, too. now, i wasn't horrified at me, because i'm kind of used to myself. i was actually horrified at the consequences of what i had just said, at the consequences for the world in which all our children are going to have to live. it was frankly a horrible moment for me, and i thought, well, no, hang on, hang on. impossible is not a fact, it's an attitude. it's only an attitude. and i decided right then and there that i was going to change my attitude and i was going to help the world change its attitude on climate change.so i don't know — no, just this? thanks. i don't know — what you would do if you were told your job is to save the planet. put that on the job description. and you have full responsibility, but you have absolutely no authority, because governments are sovereign in every decision that they take.well, i would really love to know what you would do on the first monday morning, but here's what i did: i panicked. and then i panicked again, because i realized i have no idea how we're going to solve this problem. and then i realized i have no idea how we're going to solve this problem, but i do know one thing: we have got to change the tone of this conversation. because there is no way you can deliver victory without optimism.and here, i use optimism as a very simple word, but let's understand it in its broader sense. let's understand it as courage, hope, trust, solidarity, the fundamental belief that we humans can come together and can help each other to better the fate of mankind. well, you can imagine that i thought that without that, there was no way we were going to get out of the paralysis of copenhagen. and for six years, i have stubbornly, relentlessly injected optimism into the system, no matter what the questions from the press — and i have gotten better at those — and no matter what the evidence to the contrary. and believe you me, there has been a lot of contrary evidence. but relentless optimism into the system.and pretty soon, we began to see changes happening in many areas, precipitated by thousands of people, including many of you here today, and i thank you. and this ted community will not be surprised if i tell you the first area in which we saw remarkable change was ... technology. we began to see that clean technologies, in particular renewable energy technologies, began to drop price and increase in capacity, to the point where today we are already building concentrated solar power plants that have the capacity to power entire cities, to say nothing of the fact of what we are doing on mobility and intelligent buildings. and with this shift in technologies, we were able to begin to understand that there was a shift in the economic equation, because we were able to recognize that yes, there are huge costs to climate change, and yes, there are compounded risks. but there also are economic advantages and intrinsic benefits, because the dissemination of the clean technologies is going to bring us cleaner air, better health, better transportation, more livable cities, more energy security, more energy access to the developing world. in sum, a better world than what we have now.and with that understanding, you should have witnessed, in fact, part of you were, the spread of ingenuity and excitement that went through, first through nonnational governments, the private sector, captains of industry, insurance companies, investors, city leaders, faith communities, because they all began to understand, this actually can be in their interest. this can actually improve their bottom line.and it wasn't just the usual suspects. i have to tell you i had the ceo of a major, major oil and gas company come to me at the beginning of last year and say — privately, of course — he did not know how he was going to change his company, but he is going to change it, because he's interested in long-term viability. well, now we have a shift in the economic equation, and with that, with broader support from everyone, it did not take very long before we saw that national governments woke up to the fact that this is in their national interest. and when we asked countries to begin to identify how they could contribute to global efforts but based on their national interest, 189 countries out of 195, 189 countries sent their comprehensive climate change plans, based on their national interest, concurrent with their priorities, consistent with their national sustainable development plans.well, once you protect the core interests of nations, then you can understand that nations were ready to begin to converge onto a common path, onto a common direction of travel that is going to take us probably several decades, but over those several decades is going to take us into the new economy, into a decarbonized, highly resilient economy, and the national contributions that are currently on the table on behalf of national governments are insufficient to get us to a stabilized climate, but they are only the first step, and they will improve over time. and the measurement, reporting and verification of all of those efforts is legally binding. and the checkpoints that we're going to have every five years to assess collective progress towards our goal are legally binding, and the path itself toward a decarbonized and more resilient economy is legally binding.and here's the more important part: what did we have before? a very small handful of countries who had undertaken very reduced, short-term emission reduction commitments that were completely insufficient and furthermore, largely perceived as a burden. now what do we have? now we have all countries of the world contributing with different intensities from different approaches in different sectors, but all of them contributing to a common goal and along a path with environmental integrity. well, once you have all of this in place and you have shifted this understanding, then you see that governments were able to go to paris and adopt the paris agreement. so, as i look back over the past six years, first i remember the day the paris agreement was adopted. i cannot tell you the euphoria in the room. 5,000 people jumping out of their seats, crying, clapping, screaming, yelling, torn between euphoria and still disbelief at what they had just seen, because so many people had worked for years towards this, and this was finally their reality.and it wasn't just those who had participated directly. a few weeks ago, i was with a colleague who was trying to decide on a tahitian pearl that he wanted to give to his wonderful wife natasha. and once he had finally decided what he was going to buy, the jeweler said to him, "you know, you're very lucky that you're buying this now, because these pearls could go extinct very soon because of climate change." "but," the jeweler said, "have you heard, the governments have just come to a decision, and tahiti could have a chance." well, what a fantastic confirmation that perhaps, perhaps here is hope, here is a possible chance. i'm the first one to recognize that we have a lot of work still to do. we've only just started our work on climate change. and in fact, we need to make sure that we redouble our efforts over the next five years that are the urgent five years. but i do believe that we have come over the past six years from the impossible to the now unstoppable. and how did we do that? by injecting transformational optimism that allowed us to go from confrontation to collaboration, that allowed us to understand that national and local interests are not necessarily at odds with global needs, and that if we understand that, we can bring them together and we can merge them harmoniously.and as i look forward to other global issues that will require our attention this century — food security, water security, home security, forced migration — i see that we certainly do not know how we are going to solve those problems yet. but we can take a page out of what we have done on climate change and we can understand that we have got to reinterpret the zero-sum mentality. because we were trained to believe that there always are winners and losers, and that your loss is my gain. well, now that we're in a world in which we have reached planetary boundaries and that we are not just so interconnected, but increasingly interdependent on each other, your loss is no longer my gain. we're either all losers or we all can be winners. but we are going to have to decide between zero and sum. we're going to have to decide between zero benefit for all or living life as the sum of all of us. we've done it once. we can do it again.thanks. <title = "TED's secret to great public speaking">
<tags = "['brain', 'communication', 'language', 'mind', 'speech']">
<occupation = "TED Curator">
some people think that there's a ted talk formula:"give a talk on a round, red rug.""share a childhood story.""divulge a personal secret.""end with an inspiring call to action."no. that's not how to think of a ted talk. in fact, if you overuse those devices, you're just going to come across as clichéd or emotionally manipulative.but there is one thing that all great ted talks have in common, and i would like to share that thing with you,because over the past 12 years, i've had a ringside seat, listening to many hundreds of amazing ted speakers, like these. i've helped them prepare their talks for prime time, and learned directly from them their secrets of what makes for a great talk.and even though these speakers and their topics all seem completely different, they actually do have one key common ingredient. and it's this: your number one task as a speaker is to transfer into your listeners' minds an extraordinary gift — a strange and beautiful object that we call an idea.let me show you what i mean. here's haley. she is about to give a ted talk and frankly, she's terrified.(video) presenter: haley van dyck! over the course of 18 minutes, 1,200 people, many of whom have never seen each other before, are finding that their brains are starting to sync with haley's brain and with each other. they're literally beginning to exhibit the same brain-wave patterns. and i don't just mean they're feeling the same emotions. there's something even more startling happening.let's take a look inside haley's brain for a moment. there are billions of interconnected neurons in an impossible tangle. but look here, right here — a few million of them are linked to each other in a way which represents a single idea. and incredibly, this exact pattern is being recreated in real time inside the minds of everyone listening. that's right; in just a few minutes, a pattern involving millions of neurons is being teleported into 1,200 minds, just by people listening to a voice and watching a face.but wait — what is an idea anyway? well, you can think of it as a pattern of information that helps you understand and navigate the world. ideas come in all shapes and sizes, from the complex and analytical to the simple and aesthetic.here are just a few examples shared from the ted stage. sir ken robinson — creativity is key to our kids' future.(video) sir ken robinson: my contention is that creativity now is as important in education as literacy, and we should treat it with the same status.chris anderson: elora hardy — building from bamboo is beautiful.(video) elora hardy: it is growing all around us, it's strong, it's elegant, it's earthquake-resistant.ca: chimamanda adichie — people are more than a single identity.(video) chimamanda adichie: the single story creates stereotypes, and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete.ca: your mind is teeming with ideas, and not just randomly. they're carefully linked together. collectively they form an amazingly complex structure that is your personal worldview. it's your brain's operating system. it's how you navigate the world. and it is built up out of millions of individual ideas.so, for example, if one little component of your worldview is the idea that kittens are adorable, then when you see this, you'll react like this. but if another component of your worldview is the idea that leopards are dangerous, then when you see this, you'll react a little bit differently. so, it's pretty obvious why the ideas that make up your worldview are crucial. you need them to be as reliable as possible — a guide, to the scary but wonderful real world out there.now, different people's worldviews can be dramatically different. for example, how does your worldview react when you see this image:(video) dalia mogahed: what do you think when you look at me? "a woman of faith," "an expert," maybe even "a sister"? or "oppressed," "brainwashed," "a terrorist"?ca: whatever your answer, there are millions of people out there who would react very differently. so that's why ideas really matter. if communicated properly, they're capable of changing, forever, how someone thinks about the world, and shaping their actions both now and well into the future. ideas are the most powerful force shaping human culture.so if you accept that your number one task as a speaker is to build an idea inside the minds of your audience, here are four guidelines for how you should go about that task:one, limit your talk to just one major idea. ideas are complex things; you need to slash back your content so that you can focus on the single idea you're most passionate about, and give yourself a chance to explain that one thing properly. you have to give context, share examples, make it vivid. so pick one idea, and make it the through-line running through your entire talk, so that everything you say links back to it in some way.two, give your listeners a reason to care. before you can start building things inside the minds of your audience, you have to get their permission to welcome you in. and the main tool to achieve that? curiosity. stir your audience's curiosity. use intriguing, provocative questions to identify why something doesn't make sense and needs explaining. if you can reveal a disconnection in someone's worldview, they'll feel the need to bridge that knowledge gap. and once you've sparked that desire, it will be so much easier to start building your idea.three, build your idea, piece by piece, out of concepts that your audience already understands. you use the power of language to weave together concepts that already exist in your listeners' minds — but not your language, their language. you start where they are. the speakers often forget that many of the terms and concepts they live with are completely unfamiliar to their audiences. now, metaphors can play a crucial role in showing how the pieces fit together, because they reveal the desired shape of the pattern, based on an idea that the listener already understands.for example, when jennifer kahn wanted to explain the incredible new biotechnology called crispr, she said, "it's as if, for the first time, you had a word processor to edit dna. crispr allows you to cut and paste genetic information really easily." now, a vivid explanation like that delivers a satisfying aha moment as it snaps into place in our minds. it's important, therefore, to test your talk on trusted friends, and find out which parts they get confused by.four, here's the final tip: make your idea worth sharing. by that i mean, ask yourself the question: "who does this idea benefit?" and i need you to be honest with the answer. if the idea only serves you or your organization, then, i'm sorry to say, it's probably not worth sharing. the audience will see right through you. but if you believe that the idea has the potential to brighten up someone else's day or change someone else's perspective for the better or inspire someone to do something differently, then you have the core ingredient to a truly great talk, one that can be a gift to them and to all of us.<title = "Wisdom from great writers on every year of life">
<tags = "['aging', 'books', 'humanity', 'identity', 'journalism', 'language', 'life', 'meditation', 'storytelling', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Journalist">
i'm turning 44 next month, and i have the sense that 44 is going to be a very good year, a year of fulfillment, realization. i have that sense, not because of anything particular in store for me, but because i read it would be a good year in a 1968 book by norman mailer."he felt his own age, forty-four ..." wrote mailer in "the armies of the night," "... felt as if he were a solid embodiment of bone, muscle, heart, mind, and sentiment to be a man, as if he had arrived."yes, i know mailer wasn't writing about me. but i also know that he was; for all of us — you, me, the subject of his book, age more or less in step, proceed from birth along the same great sequence: through the wonders and confinements of childhood; the emancipations and frustrations of adolescence; the empowerments and millstones of adulthood; the recognitions and resignations of old age. there are patterns to life, and they are shared. as thomas mann wrote: "it will happen to me as to them."we don't simply live these patterns. we record them, too. we write them down in books, where they become narratives that we can then read and recognize. books tell us who we've been, who we are, who we will be, too. so they have for millennia. as james salter wrote, "life passes into pages if it passes into anything."and so six years ago, a thought leapt to mind: if life passed into pages, there were, somewhere, passages written about every age. if i could find them, i could assemble them into a narrative. i could assemble them into a life, a long life, a hundred-year life, the entirety of that same great sequence through which the luckiest among us pass. i was then 37 years old, "an age of discretion," wrote william trevor. i was prone to meditating on time and age. an illness in the family and later an injury to me had long made clear that growing old could not be assumed. and besides, growing old only postponed the inevitable, time seeing through what circumstance did not. it was all a bit disheartening.a list, though, would last. to chronicle a life year by vulnerable year would be to clasp and to ground what was fleeting, would be to provide myself and others a glimpse into the future, whether we made it there or not. and when i then began to compile my list, i was quickly obsessed, searching pages and pages for ages and ages. here we were at every annual step through our first hundred years. "twenty-seven ... a time of sudden revelations," "sixty-two, ... of subtle diminishments."i was mindful, of course, that such insights were relative. for starters, we now live longer, and so age more slowly. christopher isherwood used the phrase "the yellow leaf" to describe a man at 53, only one century after lord byron used it to describe himself at 36. i was mindful, too, that life can swing wildly and unpredictably from one year to the next, and that people may experience the same age differently. but even so, as the list coalesced, so, too, on the page, clear as the reflection in the mirror, did the life that i had been living: finding at 20 that "... one is less and less sure of who one is;" emerging at 30 from the "... wasteland of preparation into active life;" learning at 40 "... to close softly the doors to rooms [i would] not be coming back to." there i was.of course, there we all are. milton glaser, the great graphic designer whose beautiful visualizations you see here, and who today is 85 — all those years "... a ripening and an apotheosis," wrote nabokov — noted to me that, like art and like color, literature helps us to remember what we've experienced.and indeed, when i shared the list with my grandfather, he nodded in recognition. he was then 95 and soon to die, which, wrote roberto bolaño, "... is the same as never dying." and looking back, he said to me that, yes, proust was right that at 22, we are sure we will not die, just as a thanatologist named edwin shneidman was right that at 90, we are sure we will. it had happened to him, as to them.now the list is done: a hundred years. and looking back over it, i know that i am not done. i still have my life to live, still have many more pages to pass into. and mindful of mailer, i await 44.thank you. <title = "We can reprogram life. How to do it wisely">
<tags = "['DNA', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'brain', 'conservation', 'environment', 'evolution', 'future', 'genetics', 'global issues', 'history', 'humanity', 'life', 'nature', 'potential', 'science', 'sustainability']">
<occupation = "Futurist">
so, there's an actor called dustin hoffman. and years ago, he made this movie which some of you may have heard of, called "the graduate." and there's two key scenes in that movie. the first one is the seduction scene. i'm not going to talk about that tonight. the second scene is where he's taken out by the old guy to the pool, and as a young college graduate, the old guy basically says one word, just one word. and of course, all of you know what that word is. it's "plastics." and the only problem with that is, it was completely the wrong advice. let me tell you why it was so wrong. the word should have been "silicon." and the reason it should have been silicon is because the basic patents for semiconductors had already been made, had already been filed, and they were already building them. so silicon valley was just being built in 1967, when this movie was released. and the year after the movie was released, intel was founded. so had the graduate heard the right one word, maybe he would have ended up onstage — oh, i don't know — maybe with these two. so as you're thinking of that, let's see what bit of advice we might want to give so that your next graduate doesn't become a tupperware salesman. so in 2015, what word of advice would you give people, when you took a college graduate out by the pool and you said one word, just one word? i think the answer would be "lifecode." so what is "lifecode?" lifecode is the various ways we have of programming life. so instead of programming computers, we're using things to program viruses or retroviruses or proteins or dna or rna or plants or animals, or a whole series of creatures. and as you're thinking about this incredible ability to make life do what you want it to do, what it's programmed to do, what you end up doing is taking what we've been doing for thousands of years, which is breeding, changing, mixing, matching all kinds of life-forms, and we accelerate it.and this is not something new. this humble mustard weed has been modified so that if you change it in one way, you get broccoli. and if you change it in a second way, you get kale. and if you change it in a third way, you get cauliflower. so when you go to these all-natural, organic markets, you're really going to a place where people have been changing the lifecode of plants for a long time. the difference today, to pick a completely politically neutral term —[intelligent design] we're beginning to practice intelligent design. that means that instead of doing this at random and seeing what happens over generations, we're inserting specific genes, we're inserting specific proteins, and we're changing lifecode for very deliberate purposes. and that allows us to accelerate how this stuff happens.let me just give you one example. some of you occasionally might think about sex. and we kind of take it for granted how we've changed sex. so we think it's perfectly normal and natural to change it. what's happened with sex over time is — normally, sex equals baby, eventually. but in today's world, sex plus pill equals no baby. and again, we think that's perfectly normal and natural, but that has not been the case for most of human history. and it's not the case for animals. what it is does is it gives us control, so sex becomes separate from conception. and as you're thinking of the consequences of that, then we've been playing with stuff that's a little bit more advanced, like art. not in the sense of painting and sculpture, but in the sense of assisted reproductive technologies. so what are assisted reproductive technologies? assisted reproductive technologies are things like in vitro fertilization. and when you do in vitro fertilization, there's very good reasons to do it. sometimes you just can't conceive otherwise. but when you do that, what you’re doing is separating sex, conception, baby. so you haven't just taken control of when you have a baby, you've separated when the baby and where the baby is fertilized. so you've separated the baby from the body from the act. and as you're thinking of other things we've been doing, think about twins. so you can freeze sperm, you can freeze eggs, you can freeze fertilized eggs. and what does that mean? well, that's a good thing if you're a cancer patient. you're about to go under chemotherapy or under radiation, so you save these things. you don't irradiate them. but if you can save them and you can freeze them, and you can have a surrogate mother, it means that you've decoupled sex from time. it means you can have twins born — oh, in 50 years? in a hundred years? two hundred years? and these are three really profound changes that are not, like, future stuff. this is stuff we take for granted today.so this lifecode stuff turns out to be a superpower. it turns out to be this incredibly powerful way of changing viruses, of changing plants, of changing animals, perhaps even of evolving ourselves. it's something that steve gullans and i have been thinking about for a while.let's have some risks. like every powerful technology, like electricity, like an automobile, like computers, this stuff potentially can be misused. and that scares a lot of people. and as you apply these technologies, you can even turn human beings into chimeras. remember the greek myth where you mix animals? well, some of these treatments actually end up changing your blood type. or they'll put male cells in a female body or vice versa, which sounds absolutely horrible until you realize, the reason you're doing that is you're substituting bone marrow during cancer treatments. so by taking somebody else's bone marrow, you may be changing some fundamental aspects of yourself, but you're also saving your life. and as you're thinking about this stuff, here's something that happened 20 years ago.this is emma ott. she's a recent college admittee. she's studying accounting. she played two varsity sports. she graduated as a valedictorian. and that's not particularly extraordinary, except that she's the first human being born to three parents. why? because she had a deadly mitochondrial disease that she might have inherited. so when you swap out a third person's dna and you put it in there, you save the lives of people. but you also are doing germline engineering, which means her kids, if she has kids, will be saved and won't go through this. and [their] kids will be saved, and their grandchildren will be saved, and this passes on.that makes people nervous. so 20 years ago, the various authorities said, why don't we study this for a while? there are risks to doing stuff, and there are risks to not doing stuff, because there were a couple dozen people saved by this technology, and then we've been thinking about it for the next 20 years. so as we think about it, as we take the time to say, "hey, maybe we should have longer studies, maybe we should do this, maybe we should do that," there are consequences to acting, and there are consequences to not acting. like curing deadly diseases — which, by the way, is completely unnatural. it is normal and natural for humans to be felled by massive epidemics of polio, of smallpox, of tuberculosis. when we put vaccines into people, we are putting unnatural things into their body because we think the benefit outweighs the risk. because we've built unnatural plants, unnatural animals, we can feed about seven billion people. we can do things like create new life-forms. and as you create new life-forms, again, that sounds terribly scary and terribly bothersome, until you realize that those life-forms live on your dining room table. those flowers you've got on your dining room table — there's not a lot that's natural about them, because people have been breeding the flowers to make this color, to be this size, to last for a week. you don't usually give your loved one wildflowers because they don't last a whole lot of time.what all this does is it flips darwin completely on his head. see, for four billion years, what lived and died on this planet depended on two principles: on natural selection and random mutation. and so what lived and died, what was structured, has now been flipped on its head. and what we've done is created this completely parallel evolutionary system where we are practicing unnatural selection and non-random mutation.so let me explain these things. this is natural selection. this is unnatural selection. so what happens with this stuff is, we started breeding wolves thousands of years ago in central asia to turn them into dogs. and then we started turning them into big dogs and into little dogs. but if you take one of the chihuahuas you see in the hermès bags on fifth avenue and you let it loose on the african plain, you can watch natural selection happen. few things on earth are less natural than a cornfield. you will never, under any scenario, walk through a virgin forest and see the same plant growing in orderly rows at the same time, nothing else living there. when you do a cornfield, you're selecting what lives and what dies. and you're doing that through unnatural selection. it's the same with a wheat field, it's the same with a rice field. it's the same with a city, it's the same with a suburb. in fact, half the surface of earth has been unnaturally engineered so that what lives and what dies there is what we want, which is the reason why you don't have grizzly bears walking through downtown manhattan.how about this random mutation stuff? well, this is random mutation. this is antonio alfonseca. he's otherwise known as the octopus, his nickname. he was the relief pitcher of the year in 2000. and he had a random mutation that gave him six fingers on each hand, which turns out to be really useful if you're a pitcher. how about non-random mutation? a non-random mutation is beer. it's wine. it's yogurt. how many times have you walked through the forest and found all-natural cheese? or all-natural yogurt? so we've been engineering this stuff. now, the interesting thing is, we get to know the stuff better. we found one of the single most powerful gene-editing instruments, crispr, inside yogurt. and as we start engineering cells, we're producing eight out of the top 10 pharmaceutical products, including the stuff that you use to treat arthritis, which is the number one best-selling drug, humira.so this lifecode stuff. it really is a superpower. it really is a way of programming stuff, and there's nothing that's going to change us more than this lifecode. so as you're thinking of lifecode, let's think of five principles as to how we start guiding, and i'd love you to give me more.so, principle number one: we have to take responsibility for this stuff. the reason we have to take responsibility is because we're in charge. these aren't random mutations. this is what we are doing, what we are choosing. it's not, "stuff happened." it didn't happen at random. it didn't come down by a verdict of somebody else. we engineer this stuff, and it's the pottery barn rule: you break it, you own it.principle number two: we have to recognize and celebrate diversity in this stuff. there have been at least 33 versions of hominids that have walked around this earth. most all of them went extinct except us. but the normal and natural state of this earth is we have various versions of humans walking around at the same time, which is why most of us have some neanderthal in us. some of us have some denisova in us. and some in washington have a lot more of it. principle number three: we have to respect other people's choices. some people will choose to never alter. some people will choose to alter all. some people will choose to alter plants but not animals. some people will choose to alter themselves. some people will choose to evolve themselves. diversity is not a bad thing, because even though we think of humans as very diverse, we came so close to extinction that all of us descend from a single african mother and the consequence of that is there's more genetic diversity in 55 african chimpanzees than there are in seven billion humans.principle number four: we should take about a quarter of the earth and only let darwin run the show there. it doesn't have to be contiguous, doesn't have to all be tied together. it should be part in the oceans, part on land. but we should not run every evolutionary decision on this planet. we want to have our evolutionary system running. we want to have darwin's evolutionary system running. and it's just really important to have these two things running in parallel and not overwhelm evolution. last thing i'll say. this is the single most exciting adventure human beings have been on. this is the single greatest superpower humans have ever had. it would be a crime for you not to participate in this stuff because you're scared of it, because you're hiding from it. you can participate in the ethics. you can participate in the politics. you can participate in the business. you can participate in just thinking about where medicine is going, where industry is going, where we're going to take the world. it would be a crime for all of us not to be aware when somebody shows up at a swimming pool and says one word, just one word, if you don't listen if that word is "lifecode."thank you very much. <title = "A taboo-free way to talk about periods">
<tags = "['activism', 'books', 'children', 'communication', 'education', 'family', 'health', 'parenting', 'visualizations', 'women']">
<occupation = "Social entrepreneur, co-founder of Menstrupedia">
periods. blood. menstruation. gross. secret. hidden. why?a natural biological process that every girl and woman goes through every month for about half of her life. a phenomenon that is so significant that the survival and propagation of our species depends on it. yet we consider it a taboo. we feel awkward and shameful talking about it.when i got my first periods, i was told to keep it a secret from others — even from my father and brother. later when this chapter appeared in our textbooks, our biology teacher skipped the subject. you know what i learned from it? i learned that it is really shameful to talk about it. i learned to be ashamed of my body. i learned to stay unaware of periods in order to stay decent.research in various parts of india shows that three out of every 10 girls are not aware of menstruation at the time of their first periods. and in some parts of rajasthan this number is as high as nine out of 10 girls being unaware of it. you'd be surprised to know that most of the girls that i have spoken to, who did not know about periods at the time of their first menstruation thought that they have got blood cancer and they're going to die soon.menstrual hygiene is a very important risk factor for reproductive tract infections. but in india, only 12 percent of girls and women have access to hygienic ways of managing their periods. if you do the math, 88 percent of girls and women use unhygienic ways to manage their periods.i was one of them. i grew up in a small town called garhwa, in jharkhand, where even buying a sanitary napkin is considered shameful. so when i started getting my periods, i began with using rags. after every use i would wash and reuse them. but to store them, i would hide and keep it in a dark, damp place so that nobody finds out that i'm menstruating. due to repeated washing the rags would become coarse, and i would often get rashes and infections using them.i wore these already for five years until i moved out of that town. another issue that periods brought in my life those of the social restrictions that are imposed upon our girls and women when they're on their periods. i think you all must be aware of it, but i'll still list it for the few who don't.i was not allowed to touch or eat pickles. i was not allowed to sit on the sofa or some other family member's bed. i had to wash my bed sheet after every period, even if it was not stained. i was considered impure and forbidden from worshipping or touching any object of religious importance. you'll find signposts outside temples denying the entry of menstruating girls and women.ironically, most of the time it is the older woman who imposes such restrictions on younger girls in a family. after all, they have grown up accepting such restrictions as norms. and in the absence of any intervention, it is the myth and misconception that propagate from generation to generation.during my years of work in this field, i have even come across stories where girls have to eat and wash their dishes separately. they're not allowed to take baths during periods, and in some households they are even secluded from other family members. about 85 percent of girls and women in india would follow one or more restrictive customs on their periods every month. can you imagine what this does to the self-esteem and self-confidence of a young girl? the psychological trauma that this inflicts, affecting her personality, her academic performance and every single aspect of growing up during her early formative years?i religiously followed all these restrictive customs for 13 years, until a discussion with my partner, tuhin, changed my perception about menstruation forever. in 2009, tuhin and i were pursuing our postgraduation in design. we fell in love with each other and i was at ease discussing periods with him. tuhin knew little about periods. he was astonished to know that girls get painful cramps and we bleed every month. yeah. he was completely shocked to know about the restrictions that are imposed upon menstruating girls and women by their own families and their society. in order to help me with my cramps, he would go on the internet and learn more about menstruation. when he shared his findings with me, i realized how little i knew about menstruation myself. and many of my beliefs actually turned out to be myths.that's when we wondered: if we, being so well educated, were so ill-informed about menstruation, there would be millions of girls out there who would be ill-informed, too. to study — to understand the problem better, i undertook a year-long research to study the lack of awareness about menstruation and the root cause behind it.while it is generally believed that menstrual unawareness and misconception is a rural phenomenon, during my research, i found that it is as much an urban phenomenon as well. and it exists with the educated urban class, also. while talking to many parents and teachers, i found that many of them actually wanted to educate girls about periods before they have started getting their menstrual cycle. and — but they lacked the proper means themselves. and since it is a taboo, they feel inhibition and shameful in talking about it.girls nowadays get their periods in classes six and seven, but our educational curriculum teaches girls about periods only in standard eight and nine. and since it is a taboo, teachers still skip the subject altogether.so school does not teach girls about periods, parents don't talk about it. where do the girls go? two decades ago and now — nothing has changed. i shared these finding with tuhin and we wondered: what if we could create something that would help girls understand about menstruation on their own — something that would help parents and teachers talk about periods comfortably to young girls?during my research, i was collecting a lot of stories. these were stories of experiences of girls during their periods. these stories would make girls curious and interested in talking about menstruation in their close circle. that's what we wanted. we wanted something that would make the girls curious and drive them to learn about it. we wanted to use these stories to teach girls about periods.so we decided to create a comic book, where the cartoon characters would enact these stories and educate girls about menstruation in a fun and engaging way. to represent girls in their different phases of puberty, we have three characters. pinki, who has not gotten her period yet, jiya who gets her period during the narrative of the book and mira who has already been getting her period. there is a fourth character, priya didi. through her, girls come to know about the various aspects of growing up and menstrual hygiene management.while making the book, we took great care that none of the illustrations were objectionable in any way and that it is culturally sensitive. during our prototype testing, we found that the girls loved the book. they were keen on reading it and knowing more and more about periods on their own. parents and teachers were comfortable in talking about periods to young girls using the book, and sometimes even boys were interested in reading it. the comic book helped in creating an environment where menstruation ceased to be a taboo. many of the volunteers took this prototype themselves to educate girls and take menstrual awareness workshops in five different states in india. and one of the volunteers took this prototype to educate young monks and took it to this monastery in ladakh.we made the final version of the book, called "menstrupedia comic" and launched in september last year. and so far, more than 4,000 girls have been educated by using the book in india and — thank you. and 10 different countries. we are constantly translating the book into different languages and collaborating with local organizations to make this book available in different countries.15 schools in different parts of india have made this book a part of their school curriculum to teach girls about menstruation. i am amazed to see how volunteers, individuals, parents, teachers, school principals, have come together and taken this menstrual awareness drive to their own communities, have made sure that the girls learn about periods at the right age and helped in breaking this taboo.i dream of a future where menstruation is not a curse, not a disease, but a welcoming change in a girl's life. and i would — and i would like to end this with a small request to all the parents here.dear parents, if you would be ashamed of periods, your daughters would be, too. so please be period positive. thank you. <title = "Hunting for dinosaurs showed me our place in the universe">
<tags = "['TED Books', 'adventure', 'ancient world', 'animals', 'asteroid', 'dinosaurs', 'environment', 'exploration', 'geology', 'history', 'humanity', 'nature', 'paleontology', 'science', 'universe']">
<occupation = "Paleontologist">
how do you find a dinosaur? sounds impossible, doesn't it? it's not. and the answer relies on a formula that all paleontologists use. and i'm going to tell you the secret.first, find rocks of the right age. second, those rocks must be sedimentary rocks. and third, layers of those rocks must be naturally exposed. that's it. find those three things and get yourself on the ground, chances are good that you will find fossils.now let me break down this formula. organisms exist only during certain geological intervals. so you have to find rocks of the right age, depending on what your interests are. if you want to find trilobites, you have to find the really, really old rocks of the paleozoic — rocks between a half a billion and a quarter-billion years old. now, if you want to find dinosaurs, don't look in the paleozoic, you won't find them. they hadn't evolved yet. you have to find the younger rocks of the mesozoic, and in the case of dinosaurs, between 235 and 66 million years ago.now, it's fairly easy to find rocks of the right age at this point, because the earth is, to a coarse degree, geologically mapped. this is hard-won information. the annals of earth history are written in rocks, one chapter upon the next, such that the oldest pages are on bottom and the youngest on top.now, were it quite that easy, geologists would rejoice. it's not. the library of earth is an old one. it has no librarian to impose order. operating over vast swaths of time, myriad geological processes offer every possible insult to the rocks of ages. most pages are destroyed soon after being written. some pages are overwritten, creating difficult-to-decipher palimpsests of long-gone landscapes. pages that do find sanctuary under the advancing sands of time are never truly safe. unlike the moon — our dead, rocky companion — the earth is alive, pulsing with creative and destructive forces that power its geological metabolism. lunar rocks brought back by the apollo astronauts all date back to about the age of the solar system. moon rocks are forever. earth rocks, on the other hand, face the perils of a living lithosphere. all will suffer ruination, through some combination of mutilation, compression, folding, tearing, scorching and baking.thus, the volumes of earth history are incomplete and disheveled. the library is vast and magnificent — but decrepit. and it was this tattered complexity in the rock record that obscured its meaning until relatively recently. nature provided no card catalog for geologists — this would have to be invented. five thousand years after the sumerians learned to record their thoughts on clay tablets, the earth's volumes remained inscrutable to humans. we were geologically illiterate, unaware of the antiquity of our own planet and ignorant of our connection to deep time.it wasn't until the turn of the 19th century that our blinders were removed, first, with the publication of james hutton's "theory of the earth," in which he told us that the earth reveals no vestige of a beginning and no prospect of an end; and then, with the printing of william smith's map of britain, the first country-scale geological map, giving us for the first time predictive insight into where certain types of rocks might occur. after that, you could say things like, "if we go over there, we should be in the jurassic," or, "if we go up over that hill, we should find the cretaceous."so now, if you want to find trilobites, get yourself a good geological map and go to the rocks of the paleozoic. if you want to find dinosaurs like i do, find the rocks of mesozoic and go there. now of course, you can only make a fossil in a sedimentary rock, a rock made by sand and mud. you can't have a fossil in an igneous rock formed by magma, like a granite, or in a metamorphic rock that's been heated and squeezed. and you have to get yourself in a desert. it's not that dinosaurs particularly lived in deserts; they lived on every land mass and in every imaginable environment. it's that you need to go to a place that's a desert today, a place that doesn't have too many plants covering up the rocks, and a place where erosion is always exposing new bones at the surface. so find those three things: rocks of the right age, that are sedimentary rocks, in a desert, and get yourself on the ground, and you literally walk until you see a bone sticking out of the rock.here's a picture that i took in southern patagonia. every pebble that you see on the ground there is a piece of dinosaur bone. so when you're in that right situation, it's not a question of whether you'll find fossils or not; you're going to find fossils. the question is: will you find something that is scientifically significant? and to help with that, i'm going to add a fourth part to our formula, which is this: get as far away from other paleontologists as possible. it's not that i don't like other paleontologists. when you go to a place that's relatively unexplored, you have a much better chance of not only finding fossils but of finding something that's new to science. so that's my formula for finding dinosaurs, and i've applied it all around the world.in the austral summer of 2004, i went to the bottom of south america, to the bottom of patagonia, argentina, to prospect for dinosaurs: a place that had terrestrial sedimentary rocks of the right age, in a desert, a place that had been barely visited by paleontologists. and we found this. this is a femur, a thigh bone, of a giant, plant-eating dinosaur. that bone is 2.2 meters across. that's over seven feet long.now, unfortunately, that bone was isolated. we dug and dug and dug, and there wasn't another bone around. but it made us hungry to go back the next year for more. and on the first day of that next field season, i found this: another two-meter femur, only this time not isolated, this time associated with 145 other bones of a giant plant eater. and after three more hard, really brutal field seasons, the quarry came to look like this. and there you see the tail of that great beast wrapping around me. the giant that lay in this grave, the new species of dinosaur, we would eventually call "dreadnoughtus schrani." dreadnoughtus was 85 feet from snout to tail. it stood two-and-a-half stories at the shoulder, and all fleshed out in life, it weighed 65 tons. people ask me sometimes, "was dreadnoughtus bigger than a t. rex?" that's the mass of eight or nine t. rex.now, one of the really cool things about being a paleontologist is when you find a new species, you get to name it. and i've always thought it a shame that these giant, plant-eating dinosaurs are too often portrayed as passive, lumbering platters of meat on the landscape. they're not. big herbivores can be surly, and they can be territorial — you do not want to mess with a hippo or a rhino or a water buffalo. the bison in yellowstone injure far more people than do the grizzly bears. so can you imagine a big bull, 65-ton dreadnoughtus in the breeding season, defending a territory? that animal would have been incredibly dangerous, a menace to all around, and itself would have had nothing to fear. and thus the name, "dreadnoughtus," or, "fears nothing."now, to grow so large, an animal like dreadnoughtus would've had to have been a model of efficiency. that long neck and long tail help it radiate heat into the environment, passively controlling its temperature. and that long neck also serves as a super-efficient feeding mechanism. dreadnoughtus could stand in one place and with that neck clear out a huge envelope of vegetation, taking in tens of thousands of calories while expending very few. and these animals evolved a bulldog-like wide-gait stance, giving them immense stability, because when you're 65 tons, when you're literally as big as a house, the penalty for falling over is death. yeah, these animals are big and tough, but they won't take a blow like that. dreadnoughtus falls over, ribs break and pierce lungs. organs burst. if you're a big 65-ton dreadnoughtus, you don't get to fall down in life — even once.now, after this particular dreadnoughtus carcass was buried and de-fleshed by a multitude of bacteria, worms and insects, its bones underwent a brief metamorphosis, exchanging molecules with the groundwater and becoming more and more like the entombing rock. as layer upon layer of sediment accumulated, pressure from all sides weighed in like a stony glove whose firm and enduring grip held each bone in a stabilizing embrace.and then came the long ... nothing. epoch after epoch of sameness, nonevents without number. all the while, the skeleton lay everlasting and unchanging in perfect equilibrium within its rocky grave. meanwhile, earth history unfolded above. the dinosaurs would reign for another 12 million years before their hegemony was snuffed out in a fiery apocalypse. the continents drifted. the mammals rose. the ice age came.and then, in east africa, an unpromising species of ape evolved the odd trick of sentient thought. these brainy primates were not particularly fast or strong. but they excelled at covering ground, and in a remarkable diaspora surpassing even the dinosaurs' record of territorial conquest, they dispersed across the planet, ravishing every ecosystem they encountered, along the way, inventing culture and metalworking and painting and dance and music and science and rocket ships that would eventually take 12 particularly excellent apes to the surface of the moon.with seven billion peripatetic homo sapiens on the planet, it was perhaps inevitable that one of them would eventually trod on the grave of the magnificent titan buried beneath the badlands of southern patagonia. i was that ape. and standing there, alone in the desert, it was not lost on me that the chance of any one individual entering the fossil record is vanishingly small. but the earth is very, very old. and over vast tracts of time, the improbable becomes the probable. that's the magic of the geological record. thus, multitudinous creatures living and dying on an old planet leave behind immense numbers of fossils, each one a small miracle, but collectively, inevitable.sixty-six million years ago, an asteroid hits the earth and wipes out the dinosaurs. this easily might not have been. but we only get one history, and it's the one that we have. but this particular reality was not inevitable. the tiniest perturbation of that asteroid far from earth would have caused it to miss our planet by a wide margin. the pivotal, calamitous day during which the dinosaurs were wiped out, setting the stage for the modern world as we know it didn't have to be. it could've just been another day — a thursday, perhaps — among the 63 billion days already enjoyed by the dinosaurs. but over geological time, improbable, nearly impossible events do occur. along the path from our wormy, cambrian ancestors to primates dressed in suits, innumerable forks in the road led us to this very particular reality. the bones of dreadnoughtus lay underground for 77 million years. who could have imagined that a single species of shrew-like mammal living in the cracks of the dinosaur world would evolve into sentient beings capable of characterizing and understanding the very dinosaurs they must have dreaded?i once stood at the head of the missouri river and bestraddled it. there, it's nothing more than a gurgle of water that issues forth from beneath a rock in a boulder in a pasture, high in the bitterroot mountains. the stream next to it runs a few hundred yards and ends in a small pond. those two streams — they look identical. but one is an anonymous trickle of water, and the other is the missouri river. now go down to the mouth of the missouri, near st. louis, and it's pretty obvious that that river is a big deal. but go up into the bitterroots and look at the missouri, and human prospection does not allow us to see it as anything special. now go back to the cretaceous period and look at our tiny, fuzzball ancestors. you would never guess that they would amount to anything special, and they probably wouldn't have, were it not for that pesky asteroid.now, make a thousand more worlds and a thousand more solar systems and let them run. you will never get the same result. no doubt, those worlds would be both amazing and amazingly improbable, but they would not be our world and they would not have our history. there are an infinite number of histories that we could've had. we only get one, and wow, did we ever get a good one. dinosaurs like dreadnoughtus were real. sea monsters like the mosasaur were real. dragonflies with the wingspan of an eagle and pill bugs the length of a car really existed.why study the ancient past? because it gives us perspective and humility. the dinosaurs died in the world's fifth mass extinction, snuffed out in a cosmic accident through no fault of their own. they didn't see it coming, and they didn't have a choice. we, on the other hand, do have a choice. and the nature of the fossil record tells us that our place on this planet is both precarious and potentially fleeting. right now, our species is propagating an environmental disaster of geological proportions that is so broad and so severe, it can rightly be called the sixth extinction. only unlike the dinosaurs, we can see it coming. and unlike the dinosaurs, we can do something about it. that choice is ours.thank you. <title = "A smart loan for people with no credit history (yet)">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'business', 'community', 'economics', 'finance', 'identity', 'innovation', 'invention', 'microfinance', 'mobility', 'money', 'potential', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Mobile finance entrepreneur">
how much do you need to know about a person before you'd feel comfortable making a loan?suppose you wanted to lend 1,000 dollars to the person sitting two rows behind you. what would you need to know about that person before you'd feel comfortable?my mom came to the us from india in her late thirties. she's a doctor in brooklyn, and she often lets friends and neighbors come to see her for health services, whether they can pay right away or not. i remember running into her patients with her at the grocery store or on the sidewalk, and sometimes they would come and pay her right on the spot for previous appointments. she would thank them, and ask them about their families and their health. she gave them credit because she trusted them.most of us are like my mom. we would give credit to someone we know or that we live next to. but most of us are probably not going to lend to a stranger unless we know a little something about them.banks, credit card companies and other financial institutions don't know us on a personal level, but they do have a way of trusting us, and that's through our credit scores. our credit scores have been created through an aggregation and analysis of our public consumer credit data. and because of them, we have pretty much easy access to all of the goods and services that we need, from getting electricity to buying a home, or taking a risk and starting a business.but ... there are 2.5 billion people around the world that don't have a credit score. that's a third of the world's population. they don't have a score because there are no formal public records on them — no bank accounts, no credit histories and no social security numbers. and because they don't have a score, they don't have access to the credit or financial products that can improve their lives. they are not trusted.so we wanted to find a way to build trust and to open up financial access for these 2.5 billion. so we created a mobile application that builds credit scores for them using mobile data. there are currently over one billion smartphones in emerging markets. and people are using them the same way that we do. they're texting their friends, they're looking up directions, they're browsing the internet and they're even making financial transactions.over time, this data is getting captured on our phones, and it provides a really rich picture of a person's life. our customers give us access to this data and we capture it through our mobile application. it helps us understand the creditworthiness of people like jenipher, a small-business owner in nairobi, kenya. jenipher is 65 years old, and for decades has been running a food stall in the central business district. she has three sons who she put through vocational school, and she's also the leader of her local chama, or savings group.jenipher's food stall does well. she makes just enough every day to cover her expenses. but she's not financially secure. any emergency could force her into debt. and she has no discretionary income to improve her family's way of living, for emergencies, or for investing into growing her business. if jenipher wants credit, her options are limited. she could get a microloan, but she'd have to form a group that could help vouch for her credibility. and even then, the loan sizes would be way too small to really have an impact on her business, averaging around 150 dollars. loan sharks are always an option, but with interest rates that are well above 300 percent, they're financially risky. and because jenipher doesn't have collateral or a credit history, she can't walk into a bank and ask for a business loan.but one day, jenipher's son convinced her to download our application and apply for a loan. jenipher answered a few questions on her phone and she gave us access to a few key data points on her device.and here's what we saw. so, bad news first. jenipher had a low savings balance and no previous loan history. these are factors that would have thrown up a red flag to a traditional bank. but there were other points in her history that showed us a much richer picture of her potential. so for one, we saw that she made regular phone calls to her family in uganda. well, it turns out that the data shows a four percent increase in repayment among people who consistently communicate with a few close contacts. we could also see that though she traveled around a lot throughout the day, she actually had pretty regular travel patterns, and she was either at home or at her food stall. and the data shows a six percent increase in repayment among customers who are consistent with where they spend most of their time.we could also see that she communicated a lot with many different people throughout the day and that she had a strong support network. our data shows that people who communicate with more than 58 different contacts tend to be more likely to be good borrowers. in jenipher's case, she communicated with 89 different individuals, which showed a nine percent increase in her repayment.these are just some of the thousands of different data points that we look at to understand a person's creditworthiness. and after analyzing all of these different data points, we took the first risk and gave jenipher a loan. this is data that would not be found on a paper trail or in any formal financial record. but it proves trust. by looking beyond income, we can see that people in emerging markets that may seem risky and unpredictable on the surface are actually willing and have the capacity to repay.our credit scores have helped us deliver over 200,000 loans in kenya in just the past year. and our repayment rates are above 90 percent — which, by the way, is in line with traditional bank repayment rates.with something as simple as a credit score, we're giving people the power to build their own futures. our customers have used their loans for family expenses, emergencies, travel and for investing back into growing their businesses. they're now building better economies and communities where more people can succeed.over the past two years of using our product, jenipher has increased her savings by 60 percent. she's also started two additional food stalls and is now making plans for her own restaurant. she's applying for a small-business loan from a commercial bank, because she now has the credit history to prove she deserves it.i saw jenipher in nairobi just last week, and she told me how excited she was to get started. she said, "only my son believed i could do this. i didn't think this was for me." she's lived her whole life believing that there was a part of the world that was closed off to her.our job now is to open the world to jenipher and the billions like her that deserve to be trusted.thank you. <title = "Insightful human portraits made from data">
<tags = "['Internet', 'algorithm', 'art', 'composing', 'computers', 'creativity', 'culture', 'data', 'identity', 'illusion', 'map', 'media', 'performance art', 'society', 'software', 'time', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Artist, composer, engineer">
so i'm an artist, but a little bit of a peculiar one. i don't paint. i can't draw. my shop teacher in high school wrote that i was a menace on my report card. you probably don't really want to see my photographs. but there is one thing i know how to do: i know how to program a computer. i can code.and people will tell me that 100 years ago, folks like me didn't exist, that it was impossible, that art made with data is a new thing, it's a product of our age, it's something that's really important to think of as something that's very "now." and that's true.but there is an art form that's been around for a very long time that's really about using information, abstract information, to make emotionally resonant pieces. and it's called music. we've been making music for tens of thousands of years, right? and if you think about what music is — notes and chords and keys and harmonies and melodies — these things are algorithms. these things are systems that are designed to unfold over time, to make us feel. i came to the arts through music. i was trained as a composer, and about 15 years ago, i started making pieces that were designed to look at the intersection between sound and image, to use an image to unveil a musical structure or to use a sound to show you something interesting about something that's usually pictorial.so what you're seeing on the screen is literally being drawn by the musical structure of the musicians onstage, and there's no accident that it looks like a plant, because the underlying algorithmic biology of the plant is what informed the musical structure in the first place. so once you know how to do this, once you know how to code with media, you can do some pretty cool stuff.this is a project i did for the sundance film festival. really simple idea: you take every academy award best picture, you speed it up to one minute each and string them all together. and so in 75 minutes, i can show you the history of hollywood cinema. and what it really shows you is the history of editing in hollywood cinema. so on the left, we've got casablanca; on the right, we've got chicago. and you can see that casablanca is a little easier to read. that's because the average length of a cinematic shot in the 1940s was 26 seconds, and now it's around six seconds.this is a project that was inspired by some work that was funded by the us federal government in the early 2000s, to look at video footage and find a specific actor in any video. and so i repurposed this code to train a system on one person in our culture who would never need to be surveilled in that manner, which is britney spears. i downloaded 2,000 paparazzi photos of britney spears and trained my computer to find her face and her face alone. i can run any footage of her through it and will center her eyes in the frame, and this sort of is a little double commentary about surveillance in our society. we are very fraught with anxiety about being watched, but then we obsess over celebrity.what you're seeing on the screen here is a collaboration i did with an artist named lián amaris. what she did is very simple to explain and describe, but very hard to do. she took 72 minutes of activity, getting ready for a night out on the town, and stretched it over three days and performed it on a traffic island in slow motion in new york city. i was there, too, with a film crew. we filmed the whole thing, and then we reversed the process, speeding it up to 72 minutes again, so it looks like she's moving normally and the whole world is flying by.at a certain point, i figured out that what i was doing was making portraits. when you think about portraiture, you tend to think about stuff like this. the guy on the left is named gilbert stuart. he's sort of the first real portraitist of the united states. and on the right is his portrait of george washington from 1796. this is the so-called lansdowne portrait. and if you look at this painting, there's a lot of symbolism, right? we've got a rainbow out the window. we've got a sword. we've got a quill on the desk. all of these things are meant to evoke george washington as the father of the nation.this is my portrait of george washington. and this is an eye chart, only instead of letters, they're words. and what the words are is the 66 words in george washington's state of the union addresses that he uses more than any other president. so "gentlemen" has its own symbolism and its own rhetoric. and it's really kind of significant that that's the word he used the most. this is the eye chart for george w. bush, who was president when i made this piece. and how you get there, from "gentlemen" to "terror" in 43 easy steps, tells us a lot about american history, and gives you a different insight than you would have looking at a series of paintings. these pieces provide a history lesson of the united states through the political rhetoric of its leaders. ronald reagan spent a lot of time talking about deficits. bill clinton spent a lot of time talking about the century in which he would no longer be president, but maybe his wife would be. lyndon johnson was the first president to give his state of the union addresses on prime-time television; he began every paragraph with the word "tonight." and richard nixon, or more accurately, his speechwriter, a guy named william safire, spent a lot of time thinking about language and making sure that his boss portrayed a rhetoric of honesty.this project is shown as a series of monolithic sculptures. it's an outdoor series of light boxes. and it's important to note that they're to scale, so if you stand 20 feet back and you can read between those two black lines, you have 20/20 vision. this is a portrait. and there's a lot of these. there's a lot of ways to do this with data. i started looking for a way to think about how i can do a more democratic form of portraiture, something that's more about my country and how it works. every 10 years, we make a census in the united states. we literally count people, find out who lives where, what kind of jobs we've got, the language we speak at home. and this is important stuff — really important stuff. but it doesn't really tell us who we are. it doesn't tell us about our dreams and our aspirations.and so in 2010, i decided to make my own census. and i started looking for a corpus of data that had a lot of descriptions written by ordinary americans. and it turns out that there is such a corpus of data that's just sitting there for the taking. it's called online dating.so in 2010, i joined 21 different online dating services, as a gay man, a straight man, a gay woman and a straight woman, in every zip code in america and downloaded about 19 million people's dating profiles — about 20 percent of the adult population of the united states. i have obsessive-compulsive disorder. this is going to become really freaking obvious. just go with me. so what i did was i sorted all this stuff by zip code. and i looked at word analysis. these are some dating profiles from 2010 with the word "lonely" highlighted. if you look at these things topographically, if you imagine dark colors to light colors are more use of the word, you can see that appalachia is a pretty lonely place. you can also see that nebraska ain't that funny. this is the kinky map, so what this is showing you is that the women in alaska need to get together with the men in southern new mexico, and have a good time. and i have this at a pretty granular level, so i can tell you that the men in the eastern half of long island are way more interested in being spanked than men in the western half of long island. this will be your one takeaway from this whole conference. you're going to remember that fact for, like, 30 years. when you bring this down to a cartographic level, you can make maps and do the same trick i was doing with the eye charts. you can replace the name of every city in the united states with the word people use more in that city than anywhere else. if you've ever dated anyone from seattle, this makes perfect sense. you've got "pretty." you've got "heartbreak." you've got "gig." you've got "cigarette." they play in a band and they smoke. and right above that you can see "email." that's redmond, washington, which is the headquarters of the microsoft corporation. some of these you can guess — so, los angeles is "acting" and san francisco is "gay." some are a little bit more heartbreaking. in baton rouge, they talk about being curvy; downstream in new orleans, they still talk about the flood. folks in the american capital will say they're interesting. people in baltimore, maryland, will say they're afraid. this is new jersey. i grew up somewhere between "annoying" and "cynical."  and new york city's number one word is "now," as in, "now i'm working as a waiter, but actually i'm an actor." or, "now i'm a professor of engineering at nyu, but actually i'm an artist." if you go upstate, you see "dinosaur." that's syracuse. the best place to eat in syracuse, new york, is a hell's angels barbecue joint called dinosaur barbecue. that's where you would take somebody on a date. i live somewhere between "unconditional" and "midsummer," in midtown manhattan. and this is gentrified north brooklyn, so you've got "dj" and "glamorous" and "hipsters" and "urbane." so that's maybe a more democratic portrait. and the idea was, what if we made red-state and blue-state maps based on what we want to do on a friday night?this is a self-portrait. this is based on my email, about 500,000 emails sent over 20 years. you can think of this as a quantified selfie. so what i'm doing is running a physics equation based on my personal data. you have to imagine everybody i've ever corresponded with. it started out in the middle and it exploded with a big bang. and everybody has gravity to one another, gravity based on how much they've been emailing, who they've been emailing with. and it also does sentimental analysis, so if i say "i love you," you're heavier to me. and you attract to my email addresses in the middle, which act like mainline stars. and all the names are handwritten.sometimes you do this data and this work with real-time data to illuminate a specific problem in a specific city. this is a walther ppk 9mm semiautomatic handgun that was used in a shooting in the french quarter of new orleans about two years ago on valentine's day in an argument over parking. those are my cigarettes. this is the house where the shooting took place. this project involved a little bit of engineering. i've got a bike chain rigged up as a cam shaft, with a computer driving it. that computer and the mechanism are buried in a box. the gun's on top welded to a steel plate. there's a wire going through to the trigger, and the computer in the box is online. it's listening to the 911 feed of the new orleans police department, so that anytime there's a shooting reported in new orleans,(gunshot sound)the gun fires. now, there's a blank, so there's no bullet. there's big light, big noise and most importantly, there's a casing. there's about five shootings a day in new orleans, so over the four months this piece was installed, the case filled up with bullets. you guys know what this is — you call this "data visualization." when you do it right, it's illuminating. when you do it wrong, it's anesthetizing. it reduces people to numbers. so watch out.one last piece for you. i spent the last summer as the artist in residence for times square. and times square in new york is literally the crossroads of the world. one of the things people don't notice about it is it's the most instagrammed place on earth. about every five seconds, someone commits a selfie in times square. that's 17,000 a day, and i have them all. these are some of them with their eyes centered.every civilization, will use the maximum level of technology available to make art. and it's the responsibility of the artist to ask questions about what that technology means and how it reflects our culture.so i leave you with this: we're more than numbers. we're people, and we have dreams and ideas. and reducing us to statistics is something that's done at our peril.thank you very much. <title = "Why I put myself in danger to tell the stories of Gaza">
<tags = "['choice', 'communication', 'fear', 'film', 'journalism', 'media', 'poverty', 'security', 'violence', 'war', 'women']">
<occupation = "Fixer">
hello. this is my first trip, first time in life i'm outside of the walls of gaza. i'm so happy to be here. my ambition always was to be a pilot, to fly a plane, to feel free to fly the sky, to touch the sky. but that didn't happen. simply, i live in gaza, there is no airport. all borders are closed on every side. we live in one of the biggest prisons in the world. the only thing i can do is just to look up to the sky. on some days, we are lucky if we have electricity for four or five hours. when it's cold, we make a fire on the front or on the roof of our homes. sometimes we make food, too.my job in gaza is to arrange everything for journalists who come to my homeland to tell the stories about what's going on in gaza. many mornings, i had to go to the border area to collect a journalist. if anything should happen to the journalist, or if the journalist decides to cover a story the government doesn't want us to cover, bad things could happen.navigating through my country helping journalists, filmmakers, news crews, is my working life. i believe my success comes from building a relationship not only with journalists and the news crews, but also with the communities in the gaza strip. these communities who don't want their stories to be told, i never looked to them as stories or numbers. but like me, they are human beings.i have built up many relationships over 10 years. and guess what? this gives me the chance to get access to people, to stories that others can't. in some certain situations, i feel, as a woman, i have more power. many male journalists in my society, they want to cover a story about drug addiction in my country. that problem started when the gaza tunnel was being built. with the siege on gaza, tunnels brought people all the basic needs like food, building material, other stuff we needed. but not anymore, because the egyptian side flooded them up with water and they are not working anymore. drugs were being smuggled, and many young people got addicted, too. in the tradition of the palestinian society, it's forbidden for men to enter the household. so, no male journalists get the story. but i did.i have a wonderful husband, a wonderful husband who supports me despite all the criticism he gets from the society. he's at home now with my two kids, and i have another one that's growing in here. when i'm working, i call him every two hours, and he knows if he doesn't hear from me, he should call my contact, the one who gives me access to the story, which is the one who i trust.one of the times in gaza, during the kidnapping of the british journalist alan johnston, i was asked by an american magazine to set up a meeting with the kidnappers in gaza, and i did. the journalist covering the story and i were asked to meet outside of his hotel. they came, they picked us up in a black van with black windows, they were wearing masks on that day. and they drove us away, far away in the middle of a field. they took our cell phones and we did the interview with the kidnapper outside in that field. i was so scared that day, a day i will never forget.so, why do i do what i do? i do it because i believe if i didn't, a huge part of the story about gaza will be missing. there are some more stories i could tell you about my country. and not all of them are bad. i love my country, despite the terrible situation we live in — siege, poverty, unemployment — but there is life. there are people who are dreamers and amazing people full of energy. we have wonderful music, and a great music school. we have parkour dancers who dance in the rubble of their homes. and gaza is the only place in the arab world where muslims and christians live in strong brotherhood. during the time of war, the hardest part for me is leaving the house early in the morning, leaving my children. i take a picture of them everyday because i never know if i will make it back to them. being a fixer and a journalist is difficult and dangerous in gaza. but when i hear the sound of the shelling or the sound of the bombing, i just head straight toward it, because i want to be there first, because these stories should be told.when my children were small and we heard the sound of the war, i used to tell them that they were fireworks. now they are older, they understand. i do have terrible nightmares because of all that i witnessed during war times, especially these lifeless bodies of young children. i still remember a little girl, her name is hala. she's the only survivor from her family. her picture will be with me forever. i will never forget her.i'm proud that i can stand here and be here today with you. i'm proud that i can tell you stories, sad and happy, stories about my small corner of the world, gaza. i'm proud that i am the first female fixer working in gaza. and the funny thing is they call me mr. rambo in gaza. i hope one day, i will get the chance to tell the stories of all other women, all other amazing women i know in my country. i hope that one day i can help other women in my country to be fixers like me. and of course sometimes, i feel i can't do this work anymore, it's just too much for me. but i remember these words: "don't limit your challenge, but challenge your limit. don't allow others to stand in front of your dreams."thank you. <title = "A provocative way to finance the fight against climate change">
<tags = "['big problems', 'business', 'climate change', 'economics', 'environment', 'finance', 'future', 'global issues', 'government', 'money', 'policy', 'pollution', 'sustainability']">
<occupation = "Financial expert">
will we do whatever it takes to tackle climate change?i come at this question not as a green campaigner, in fact, i confess to be rather hopeless at recycling. i come at it as a professional observer of financial policy making and someone that wonders how history will judge us.one day, this ring that belonged to my grandfather will pass to my son, charlie. and i wonder what his generation and perhaps the one that follows will make of the two lives this ring has worked.my grandfather was a coal miner. in his time, burning fossil fuels for energy and for allowing economies to develop was accepted. we know now that that is not the case because of the greenhouse gases that coal produces. but today, i fear it's the industry in which i work that will be judged more harshly because of its impact on the climate — more harshly than my grandfather's industry, even.i work, of course, in the banking industry, which will be remembered for its crisis in 2008 — a crisis that diverted the attention and finances of governments away from some really, really important promises, like promises made at the copenhagen climate summit in 2009 to mobilize 100 billion dollars a year to help developing countries move away from burning fossil fuels and transition to using cleaner energy. that promise is already in jeopardy. and that's a real problem, because that transition to cleaner energy needs to happen sooner rather than later.firstly, because greenhouse gases, once released, stay in the atmosphere for decades. and secondly, if a developing economy builds its power grid around fossil fuels today, it's going to be way more costly to change later on. so for the climate, history may judge that the banking crisis happened at just the wrong time. the story need not be this gloomy, though.three years ago, i argued that governments could use the tools deployed to save the financial system to meet other global challenges. and these arguments are getting stronger, not weaker, with time. let's take a brief reminder of what those tools looked like.when the financial crisis hit in 2008, the central banks of the us and uk began buying bonds issued by their own governments in a policy known as "quantitative easing." depending on what happens to those bonds when they mature, this is money printing by another name. and boy, did they print. the us alone created four trillion dollars' worth of its own currency. this was not done in isolation. in a remarkable act of cooperation, the 188 countries that make up the international monetary fund, the imf, agreed to issue 250 billion dollars' worth of their own currency — the special drawing right — to boost reserves around the world.when the financial crisis moved to europe, the european central bank president, mario draghi, promised "to do whatever it takes." and they did. the bank of japan repeated those words — that exact same commitment — to do "whatever it takes" to reflate their economy. in both cases, "whatever it takes" meant trillions of dollars more in money-printing policies that continue today. what this shows is that when faced with some global challenges, policy makers are able to act collectively, with urgency, and run the risks of unconventional policies like money printing.so, let's go back to that original question: can we print money for climate finance? three years ago, the idea of using money in this way was something of a taboo. once you break down and dismantle the idea that money is a finite resource, governments can quickly get overwhelmed by demands from their people to print more and more money for other causes: education, health care, welfare — even defense.and there are some truly terrible historical examples of money printing — uncontrolled money printing — leading to hyperinflation. think: weimar republic in 1930; zimbabwe more recently, in 2008, when the prices of basic goods like bread are doubling every day. but all of this is moving the public debate forward, so much so, that money printing for the people is now discussed openly in the financial media, and even in some political manifestos.but it's important the debate doesn't stop here, with printing national currencies. because climate change is a shared global problem, there are some really compelling reasons why we should be printing that international currency that's issued by the imf, to fund it. the special drawing right, or sdr, is the imf's electronic unit of account that governments use to transfer funds amongst each other. think of it as a peer-to-peer payment network, like bitcoin, but for governments.and it's truly global. each of the 188 members of the imf hold sdr quotas as part of their foreign exchange reserves. these are national stores of wealth that countries keep to protect themselves against currency crises. and that global nature is why, at the height of the financial crisis in 2009, the imf issued those extra 250 billion dollars — because it served as a collective global action that safeguarded countries large and small in one fell swoop.but here — here's the intriguing part. more than half of those extra sdrs that were printed in 2009 — 150 billion dollars' worth — went to developed market countries who, for the most part, have a modest need for these foreign exchange reserves, because they have flexible exchange rates. so those extra reserves that were printed in 2009, in the end, for developed market countries at least, weren't really needed. and they remain unused today.so here's an idea. as a first step, why don't we start spending those unused, those extra sdrs that were printed in 2009, to combat climate change?they could, for example, be used to buy bonds issued by the un's green climate fund. this was a fund created in 2009, following that climate agreement in copenhagen. and it was designed to channel funds towards developing countries to meet their climate projects. it's been one of the most successful funds of its type, raising almost 10 billion dollars. but if we use those extra sdrs that were issued, it helps governments get back on track, to meet that promise of 100 billion dollars a year that was derailed by the financial crisis.it could also — it could also serve as a test case. if the inflationary consequences of using sdrs in this way are benign, it could be used to justify the additional, extra issuance of sdrs, say, every five years, again, with the commitment that developed-market countries would direct their share of the new reserves to the green climate fund.printing international money in this way has several advantages over printing national currencies. the first is it's really easy to argue that spending money to mitigate climate change benefits everyone. no one section of society benefits from the printing press over another. that problem of competing claims is mitigated. it's also fair to say that because it takes so many countries to agree to issue these extra sdrs, it's highly unlikely that money printing would get out of control. what you end up with is a collective, global action aimed — and it's controlled global action — aimed at a global good. and, as we've learned with the money-printing schemes, whatever concerns we have can be allayed by rules.so, for example, the issuance of these extra sdrs every five years could be capped, such that this international currency is never more than five percent of global foreign exchange reserves. that's important because it would allay well, let's say, the ridiculous concerns that the us might have that the sdr could ever challenge the dollar's dominant role in international finance. and in fact, i think the only thing that the sdr would likely steal from the dollar under this scheme is its nickname, the "greenback." because even with that cap in place, the imf could have followed up its issuance — its massive issuance of sdrs in 2009 — with a further 200 billion dollars of sdrs in 2014.so hypothetically, that would mean that developed countries could have contributed up to 300 billion dollars' worth of sdrs to the green climate fund. that's 30 times what it has today. and you know, as spectacular as that sounds, it's only just beginning to look like "whatever it takes."and just to think what amazing things could be done with that money, consider this: in 2009, norway promised one billion dollars of its reserves to brazil if they followed through on their goals on deforestation. that program has since delivered a 70 percent reduction in deforestation in the past decade. that's saving 3.2 billion tons of carbon dioxide emissions, which is the equivalent of taking all american cars off the roads for three whole years. so what could we do with 300 other pay-for-performance climate projects like that, organized on a global scale? we could take cars off the roads for a generation.so, let's not quibble about whether we can afford to fund climate change. the real question is: do we care enough about future generations to take the very same policy risks we took to save the financial system? after all, we could do it, we did do it and we are doing it today.we must, must, must do "whatever it takes."thank you. <title = "How to read the genome and build a human being">
<tags = "['DNA', 'biology', 'biotech', 'choice', 'complexity', 'disease', 'future', 'genetics', 'health', 'humanity', 'identity', 'machine learning', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'nature', 'potential', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Scientist, entrepreneur">
for the next 16 minutes, i'm going to take you on a journey that is probably the biggest dream of humanity: to understand the code of life.so for me, everything started many, many years ago when i met the first 3d printer. the concept was fascinating. a 3d printer needs three elements: a bit of information, some raw material, some energy, and it can produce any object that was not there before.i was doing physics, i was coming back home and i realized that i actually always knew a 3d printer. and everyone does. it was my mom. my mom takes three elements: a bit of information, which is between my father and my mom in this case, raw elements and energy in the same media, that is food, and after several months, produces me. and i was not existent before.so apart from the shock of my mom discovering that she was a 3d printer, i immediately got mesmerized by that piece, the first one, the information. what amount of information does it take to build and assemble a human? is it much? is it little? how many thumb drives can you fill?well, i was studying physics at the beginning and i took this approximation of a human as a gigantic lego piece. so, imagine that the building blocks are little atoms and there is a hydrogen here, a carbon here, a nitrogen here. so in the first approximation, if i can list the number of atoms that compose a human being, i can build it. now, you can run some numbers and that happens to be quite an astonishing number. so the number of atoms, the file that i will save in my thumb drive to assemble a little baby, will actually fill an entire titanic of thumb drives — multiplied 2,000 times. this is the miracle of life. every time you see from now on a pregnant lady, she's assembling the biggest amount of information that you will ever encounter. forget big data, forget anything you heard of. this is the biggest amount of information that exists. but nature, fortunately, is much smarter than a young physicist, and in four billion years, managed to pack this information in a small crystal we call dna. we met it for the first time in 1950 when rosalind franklin, an amazing scientist, a woman, took a picture of it. but it took us more than 40 years to finally poke inside a human cell, take out this crystal, unroll it, and read it for the first time. the code comes out to be a fairly simple alphabet, four letters: a, t, c and g. and to build a human, you need three billion of them. three billion. how many are three billion? it doesn't really make any sense as a number, right?so i was thinking how i could explain myself better about how big and enormous this code is. but there is — i mean, i'm going to have some help, and the best person to help me introduce the code is actually the first man to sequence it, dr. craig venter. so welcome onstage, dr. craig venter. not the man in the flesh, but for the first time in history, this is the genome of a specific human, printed page-by-page, letter-by-letter: 262,000 pages of information, 450 kilograms, shipped from the united states to canada thanks to bruno bowden, lulu.com, a start-up, did everything. it was an amazing feat.but this is the visual perception of what is the code of life. and now, for the first time, i can do something fun. i can actually poke inside it and read. so let me take an interesting book ... like this one. i have an annotation; it's a fairly big book. so just to let you see what is the code of life. thousands and thousands and thousands and millions of letters. and they apparently make sense. let's get to a specific part. let me read it to you: "aag, aat, ata."to you it sounds like mute letters, but this sequence gives the color of the eyes to craig. i'll show you another part of the book. this is actually a little more complicated.chromosome 14, book 132: as you might expect. "att, ctt, gatt."this human is lucky, because if you miss just two letters in this position — two letters of our three billion — he will be condemned to a terrible disease: cystic fibrosis. we have no cure for it, we don't know how to solve it, and it's just two letters of difference from what we are.a wonderful book, a mighty book, a mighty book that helped me understand and show you something quite remarkable. every one of you — what makes me, me and you, you — is just about five million of these, half a book. for the rest, we are all absolutely identical. five hundred pages is the miracle of life that you are. the rest, we all share it. so think about that again when we think that we are different. this is the amount that we share.so now that i have your attention, the next question is: how do i read it? how do i make sense out of it? well, for however good you can be at assembling swedish furniture, this instruction manual is nothing you can crack in your life. and so, in 2014, two famous tedsters, peter diamandis and craig venter himself, decided to assemble a new company. human longevity was born, with one mission: trying everything we can try and learning everything we can learn from these books, with one target — making real the dream of personalized medicine, understanding what things should be done to have better health and what are the secrets in these books.an amazing team, 40 data scientists and many, many more people, a pleasure to work with. the concept is actually very simple. we're going to use a technology called machine learning. on one side, we have genomes — thousands of them. on the other side, we collected the biggest database of human beings: phenotypes, 3d scan, nmr — everything you can think of. inside there, on these two opposite sides, there is the secret of translation. and in the middle, we build a machine. we build a machine and we train a machine — well, not exactly one machine, many, many machines — to try to understand and translate the genome in a phenotype. what are those letters, and what do they do? it's an approach that can be used for everything, but using it in genomics is particularly complicated. little by little we grew and we wanted to build different challenges. we started from the beginning, from common traits. common traits are comfortable because they are common, everyone has them.so we started to ask our questions: can we predict height? can we read the books and predict your height? well, we actually can, with five centimeters of precision. bmi is fairly connected to your lifestyle, but we still can, we get in the ballpark, eight kilograms of precision. can we predict eye color? yeah, we can. eighty percent accuracy. can we predict skin color? yeah we can, 80 percent accuracy. can we predict age? we can, because apparently, the code changes during your life. it gets shorter, you lose pieces, it gets insertions. we read the signals, and we make a model.now, an interesting challenge: can we predict a human face? it's a little complicated, because a human face is scattered among millions of these letters. and a human face is not a very well-defined object. so, we had to build an entire tier of it to learn and teach a machine what a face is, and embed and compress it. and if you're comfortable with machine learning, you understand what the challenge is here.now, after 15 years — 15 years after we read the first sequence — this october, we started to see some signals. and it was a very emotional moment. what you see here is a subject coming in our lab. this is a face for us. so we take the real face of a subject, we reduce the complexity, because not everything is in your face — lots of features and defects and asymmetries come from your life. we symmetrize the face, and we run our algorithm. the results that i show you right now, this is the prediction we have from the blood. wait a second. in these seconds, your eyes are watching, left and right, left and right, and your brain wants those pictures to be identical. so i ask you to do another exercise, to be honest. please search for the differences, which are many. the biggest amount of signal comes from gender, then there is age, bmi, the ethnicity component of a human. and scaling up over that signal is much more complicated. but what you see here, even in the differences, lets you understand that we are in the right ballpark, that we are getting closer. and it's already giving you some emotions.this is another subject that comes in place, and this is a prediction. a little smaller face, we didn't get the complete cranial structure, but still, it's in the ballpark. this is a subject that comes in our lab, and this is the prediction. so these people have never been seen in the training of the machine. these are the so-called "held-out" set. but these are people that you will probably never believe. we're publishing everything in a scientific publication, you can read it.but since we are onstage, chris challenged me. i probably exposed myself and tried to predict someone that you might recognize. so, in this vial of blood — and believe me, you have no idea what we had to do to have this blood now, here — in this vial of blood is the amount of biological information that we need to do a full genome sequence. we just need this amount. we ran this sequence, and i'm going to do it with you. and we start to layer up all the understanding we have. in the vial of blood, we predicted he's a male. and the subject is a male. we predict that he's a meter and 76 cm. the subject is a meter and 77 cm. so, we predicted that he's 76; the subject is 82. we predict his age, 38. the subject is 35. we predict his eye color. too dark. we predict his skin color. we are almost there. that's his face.now, the reveal moment: the subject is this person. and i did it intentionally. i am a very particular and peculiar ethnicity. southern european, italians — they never fit in models. and it's particular — that ethnicity is a complex corner case for our model. but there is another point. so, one of the things that we use a lot to recognize people will never be written in the genome. it's our free will, it's how i look. not my haircut in this case, but my beard cut. so i'm going to show you, i'm going to, in this case, transfer it — and this is nothing more than photoshop, no modeling — the beard on the subject. and immediately, we get much, much better in the feeling.so, why do we do this? we certainly don't do it for predicting height or taking a beautiful picture out of your blood. we do it because the same technology and the same approach, the machine learning of this code, is helping us to understand how we work, how your body works, how your body ages, how disease generates in your body, how your cancer grows and develops, how drugs work and if they work on your body.this is a huge challenge. this is a challenge that we share with thousands of other researchers around the world. it's called personalized medicine. it's the ability to move from a statistical approach where you're a dot in the ocean, to a personalized approach, where we read all these books and we get an understanding of exactly how you are. but it is a particularly complicated challenge, because of all these books, as of today, we just know probably two percent: four books of more than 175.and this is not the topic of my talk, because we will learn more. there are the best minds in the world on this topic. the prediction will get better, the model will get more precise. and the more we learn, the more we will be confronted with decisions that we never had to face before about life, about death, about parenting.so, we are touching the very inner detail on how life works. and it's a revolution that cannot be confined in the domain of science or technology. this must be a global conversation. we must start to think of the future we're building as a humanity. we need to interact with creatives, with artists, with philosophers, with politicians. everyone is involved, because it's the future of our species. without fear, but with the understanding that the decisions that we make in the next year will change the course of history forever.thank you. <title = "How my son's short life made a lasting difference">
<tags = "['TEDMED', 'children', 'choice', 'death', 'decision-making', 'family', 'life', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'parenting', 'science']">
<occupation = "Researchers' dream donator">
i was three months pregnant with twins when my husband ross and i went to my second sonogram.i was 35 years old at the time, and i knew that that meant we had a higher risk of having a child with a birth defect. so, ross and i researched the standard birth defects, and we felt reasonably prepared.well, nothing would have prepared us for the bizarre diagnosis that we were about to face. the doctor explained that one of our twins, thomas, had a fatal birth defect called anencephaly. this means that his brain was not formed correctly because part of his skull was missing. babies with this diagnosis typically die in utero or within a few minutes, hours or days of being born. but the other twin, callum, appeared to be healthy, as far as the doctor could tell, and these twins were identical, genetically identical.so after a lot of questions about how this could have possibly happened, a selective reduction was mentioned, and while this procedure was not impossible, it posed some unique risks for the healthy twin and for me, so we decided to carry the pregnancy to term. so there i was, three months pregnant, with two trimesters ahead of me, and i had to find a way to manage my blood pressure and my stress. and it felt like having a roommate point a loaded gun at you for six months. but i stared down the barrel of that gun for so long that i saw a light at the end of the tunnel. while there was nothing we could do to prevent the tragedy, i wanted to find a way for thomas's brief life to have some kind of positive impact.so i asked my nurse about organ, eye and tissue donation. she connected with our local organ-procurement organization, the washington regional transplant community. wrtc explained to me that thomas would probably be too small at birth to donate for transplant, and i was shocked: i didn't even know you could be rejected for that. but they said that he would be a good candidate to donate for research. this helped me see thomas in a new light. as opposed to just a victim of a disease, i started to see him as a possible key to unlock a medical mystery.on march 23, 2010, the twins were born, and they were both born alive. and just like the doctor said, thomas was missing the top part of his skull, but he could nurse, drink from a bottle, cuddle and grab our fingers like a normal baby, and he slept in our arms. after six days, thomas died in ross's arms surrounded by our family.we called wrtc, who sent a van to our home and brought him to children's national medical center. a few hours later, we got a call to say that the recovery was a success, and thomas's donations would be going to four different places. his cord blood would go to duke university. his liver would go to a cell-therapy company called cytonet in durham. his corneas would go to schepens eye research institute, which is part of harvard medical school, and his retinas would go to the university of pennsylvania.a few days later, we had a funeral with our immediate family, including baby callum, and we basically closed this chapter in our lives. but i did find myself wondering, what's happening now? what are the researchers learning? and was it even worthwhile to donate?wrtc invited ross and i to a grief retreat, and we met about 15 other grieving families who had donated their loved one's organs for transplant. some of them had even received letters from the people who received their loved one's organs, saying thank you. i learned that they could even meet each other if they'd both sign a waiver, almost like an open adoption. and i was so excited, i thought maybe i could write a letter or i could get a letter and learn about what happened. but i was disappointed to learn that this process only exists for people who donate for transplant. so i was jealous. i had transplant envy, i guess. but over the years that followed, i learned a lot more about donation, and i even got a job in the field.and i came up with an idea. i wrote a letter that started out, "dear researcher." i explained who i was, and i asked if they could tell me why they requested infant retinas in march of 2010, and i asked if my family could visit their lab. i emailed it to the eye bank that arranged the donation, the old dominion eye foundation, and asked if they could send it to the right person. they said that they had never done this before, and they couldn't guarantee a response, but they wouldn't be an obstacle, and they would deliver it.two days later, i got a response from dr. arupa ganguly of the university of pennsylvania. she thanked me for the donation, and she explained that she is studying retinoblastoma, which is a deadly cancer of the retina that affects children under the age of five, and she said that yes, we were invited to visit her lab.so next we talked on the phone, and one of the first things she said to me was that she couldn't possibly imagine how we felt, and that thomas had given the ultimate sacrifice, and that she seemed to feel indebted to us. so i said, "nothing against your study, but we didn't actually pick it. we donated to the system, and the system chose your study. i said, "and second of all, bad things happen to children every day, and if you didn't want these retinas, they would probably be buried in the ground right now. so to be able to participate in your study gives thomas's life a new layer of meaning. so, never feel guilty about using this tissue."next, she explained to me how rare it was. she had placed a request for this tissue six years earlier with the national disease research interchange. she got only one sample of tissue that fit her criteria, and it was thomas's.next, we arranged a date for me to come visit the lab, and we chose march 23, 2015, which was the twins' fifth birthday. after we hung up, i emailed her some pictures of thomas and callum, and a few weeks later, we received this t-shirt in the mail.a few months later, ross, callum and i piled in the car and we went for a road trip. we met arupa and her staff, and arupa said that when i told her not to feel guilty, that it was a relief, and that she hadn't seen it from our perspective. she also explained that thomas had a secret code name. the same way henrietta lacks is called hela, thomas was called res 360. res means research, and 360 means he was the 360th specimen over the course of about 10 years.she also shared with us a unique document, and it was the shipping label that sent his retinas from dc to philadelphia. this shipping label is like an heirloom to us now. it's the same way that a military medal or a wedding certificate might be.arupa also explained that she is using thomas's retina and his rna to try to inactivate the gene that causes tumor formation, and she even showed us some results that were based on res 360. then she took us to the freezer and she showed us the two samples that she still has that are still labeled res 360. there's two little ones left. she said she saved it because she doesn't know when she might get more. after this, we went to the conference room and we relaxed and we had lunch together, and the lab staff presented callum with a birthday gift. it was a child's lab kit. and they also offered him an internship. so in closing, i have two simple messages today. one is that most of us probably don't think about donating to research. i know i didn't. i think i'm a normal person. but i did it. it was a good experience, and i recommend it, and it brought my family a lot of peace. and second is if you work with human tissue and you wonder about the donor and about the family, write them a letter. tell them you received it, tell them what you're working on, and invite them to visit your lab, because that visit may be even more gratifying for you than it is for them. and i'd also like to ask you a favor. if you're ever successful in arranging one of these visits, please tell me about it.the other part of my family's story is that we ended up visiting all four facilities that received thomas's donations. and we met amazing people doing inspiring work. the way i see it now is that thomas got into harvard, duke and penn — and he has a job at cytonet, and he has colleagues and he has coworkers who are in the top of their fields. and they need him in order to do their job. and a life that once seemed brief and insignificant revealed itself to be vital, everlasting and relevant. and i only hope that my life can be as relevant.thank you. <title = "Pirates, nurses and other rebel designers">
<tags = "['communication', 'design', 'future', 'history', 'innovation', 'journalism', 'product design', 'public health', 'sanitation']">
<occupation = "Design critic">
design is a slippery and elusive phenomenon, which has meant different things at different times. but all truly inspiring design projects have one thing in common: they began with a dream. and the bolder the dream, the greater the design feat that will be required to achieve it. and this is why the greatest designers are almost always the biggest dreamers and rebels and renegades.this has been the case throughout history, all the way back to the year 300 bc, when a 13-year-old became the king of a remote, very poor and very small asian country. he dreamt of acquiring land, riches and power through military conquest. and his design skills — improbable though it sounds — would be essential in enabling him to do so.at the time, all weapons were made by hand to different specifications. so if an archer ran out of arrows during a battle, they wouldn't necessarily be able to fire another archer's arrows from their bow. this of course meant that they would be less effective in combat and very vulnerable, too. ying solved this problem by insisting that all bows and arrows were designed identically, so they were interchangeable. and he did the same for daggers, axes, spears, shields and every other form of weaponry. his formidably equipped army won batter after battle, and within 15 years, his tiny kingdom had succeeded in conquering all its larger, richer, more powerful neighbors, to found the mighty chinese empire.now, no one, of course, would have thought of describing ying zheng as a designer at the time — why would they? and yet he used design unknowingly and instinctively but with tremendous ingenuity to achieve his ends. and so did another equally improbable, accidental designer, who was also not above using violence to get what he wanted. this was edward teach, better known as the british pirate, blackbeard.this was the golden age of piracy, where pirates like teach were terrorizing the high seas. colonial trade was flourishing, and piracy was highly profitable. and the smarter pirates like him realized that to maximize their spoils, they needed to attack their enemies so brutally that they would surrender on sight. so in other words, they could take the ships without wasting ammunition, or incurring casualties.so edward teach redesigned himself as blackbeard by playing the part of a merciless brute. he wore heavy jackets and big hats to accentuate his height. he grew the bushy black beard that obscured his face. he slung braces of pistols on either shoulder. he even attached matches to the brim of his hat and set them alight, so they sizzled menacingly whenever his ship was poised to attack. and like many pirates of that era, he flew a flag that bore the macabre symbols of a human skull and a pair of crossed bones, because those motifs had signified death in so many cultures for centuries, that their meaning was instantly recognizable, even in the lawless, illiterate world of the high seas: surrender or you'll suffer. so of course, all his sensible victims surrendered on sight.put like that, it's easy to see why edward teach and his fellow pirates could be seen as pioneers of modern communications design, and why their deadly symbol — there's more — why their deadly symbol of the skull and crossbones was a precursor of today's logos, rather like the big red letters standing behind me, but of course with a different message. yet design was also used to nobler ends by an equally brilliant and equally improbable designer, the 19th-century british nurse, florence nightingale. her mission was to provide decent healthcare for everyone. nightingale was born into a rather grand, very wealthy british family, who were horrified when she volunteered to work in military hospitals during the crimean war. once there, she swiftly realized that more patients were dying of infections that they caught there, in the filthy, fetid wards, than they were of battle wounds. so she campaigned for cleaner, lighter, airier clinics to be designed and built.back in britain, she mounted another campaign, this time for civilian hospitals, and insisted that the same design principles were applied to them. the nightingale ward, as it is called, dominated hospital design for decades to come, and elements of it are still used today. but by then, design was seen as a tool of the industrial age. it was formalized and professionalized, but it was restricted to specific roles and generally applied in pursuit of commercial goals rather than being used intuitively, as florence nightingale, blackbeard and ying zheng had done.by the 20th century, this commercial ethos was so powerful, that any designers who deviated from it risked being seen as cranks or subversives.now among them is one of my great design heroes, the brilliant lászló moholy-nagy. he was the hungarian artist and designer whose experiments with the impact of technology on daily life were so powerful that they still influence the design of the digital images we see on our phone and computer screens. he radicalized the bauhaus design school in 1920s germany, and yet some of his former colleagues shunned him when he struggled to open a new bauhaus in chicago years later. moholy's ideas were as bold and incisive as ever, but his approach to design was too experimental, as was his insistence on seeing it, as he put it, as an attitude, not a profession to be in tune with the times.and sadly, the same applied to another design maverick: richard buckminster fuller. he was yet another brilliant design visionary and design activist, who was completely committed to designing a sustainable society in such a forward-thinking way that he started talking about the importance of environmentalism in design in the 1920s. now he, despite his efforts, was routinely mocked as a crank by many in the design establishment, and admittedly, some of his experiments failed, like the flying car that never got off the ground. and yet, the geodesic dome, his design formula to build an emergency shelter from scraps of wood, metal, plastic, bits of tree, old blankets, plastic sheeting — just about anything that's available at the time — is one of the greatest feats of humanitarian design, and has provided sorely needed refuge to many, many people in desperate circumstances ever since.now, it was the courage and verve of radical designers like bucky and moholy that drew me to design. i began my career as a news journalist and foreign correspondent. i wrote about politics, economics and corporate affairs, and i could have chosen to specialize in any of those fields. but i picked design, because i believe it's one of the most powerful tools at our disposal to improve our quality of life.thank you, fellow ted design buffs. and greatly as i admire the achievements of professional designers, which have been extraordinary and immense, i also believe that design benefits hugely from the originality, the lateral thinking and the resourcefulness of its rebels and renegades. and we're living at a remarkable moment in design, because this is a time when the two camps are coming closer together. because even very basic advances in digital technology have enabled them to operate increasingly independently, in or out of a commercial context, to pursue ever more ambitious and eclectic objectives.so in theory, basic platforms like crowdfunding, cloud computing, social media are giving greater freedom to professional designers and giving more resources for the improvisational ones, and hopefully, a more receptive response to their ideas.now, some of my favorite examples of this are in africa, where a new generation of designers are developing incredible internet of things technologies to fulfill florence nightingale's dream of improving healthcare in countries where more people now have access to cell phones than to clean, running water.and among them is arthur zang. he's a young, cameroonian design engineer who has a adapted a tablet computer into the cardiopad, a mobile heart-monitoring device. it can be used to monitor the hearts of patients in remote, rural areas. the data is then sent on a cellular network to well-equipped hospitals hundreds of miles away for analysis. and if any problems are spotted by the specialists there, a suitable course of treatment is recommended. and this of course saves many patients from making long, arduous, expensive and often pointless journeys to those hospitals, and makes it much, much likelier that their hearts will actually be checked.arthur zang started working on the cardiopad eight years ago, in his final year at university. but he failed to persuade any conventional sources to give him investment to get the project off the ground. he posted the idea on facebook, where a cameroonian government official saw it and managed to secure a government grant for him. he's now developing not only the cardiopad, but other mobile medical devices to treat different conditions.and he isn't alone, because there are many other inspiring and enterprising designers who are also pursuing extraordinary projects of their own. and i'm going to finish by looking at just a few of them. one is peek vision. this is a group of doctors and designers in kenya, who've developed an internet of things technology of their own, as a portable eye examination kit. then there's gabriel maher, who is developing a new design language to enable us to articulate the subtleties of our changing gender identities, without recourse to traditional stereotypes.all of these designers and many more are pursuing their dreams, by the making the most of their newfound freedom, with the discipline of professional designers and the resourcefulness of rebels and renegades. and we all stand to benefit.thank you. <title = "The dream we haven't dared to dream">
<tags = "['activism', 'big problems', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'empathy', 'identity', 'personal growth', 'potential', 'self', 'social change', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Author, speaker, reformer">
when i think about dreams, like many of you, i think about this picture. i was eight when i watched neil armstrong step off the lunar module onto the surface of the moon. i had never seen anything like it before, and i've never seen anything like it since.we got to the moon for one simple reason: john kennedy committed us to a deadline. and in the absence of that deadline, we would still be dreaming about it. leonard bernstein said two things are necessary for great achievement: a plan and not quite enough time. deadlines and commitments are the great and fading lessons of apollo. and they are what give the word "moonshot" its meaning. and our world is in desperate need of political leaders willing to set bold deadlines for the achievement of daring dreams on the scale of apollo again.when i think about dreams, i think about the drag queens of la and stonewall and millions of other people risking everything to come out when that was really dangerous, and of this picture of the white house lit up in rainbow colors, yes — —celebrating america's gay and lesbian citizens' right to marry. it is a picture that in my wildest dreams i could never have imagined when i was 18 and figuring out that i was gay and feeling estranged from my country and my dreams because of it.i think about this picture of my family that i never dreamed i could ever have — —and of our children holding this headline i never dreamed could ever be printed about the supreme court ruling.we need more of the courage of drag queens and astronauts. but i want to talk about the need for us to dream in more than one dimension, because there was something about apollo that i didn't know when i was 8, and something about organizing that the rainbow colors over. of the 30 astronauts in the original mercury, gemini and apollo programs, only seven marriages survived. those iconic images of the astronauts bouncing on the moon obscure the alcoholism and depression on earth.thomas merton, the trappist monk, asked during the time of apollo, "what can we gain by sailing to the moon if we are not able to cross the abyss that separates us from ourselves?" and what can we gain by the right to marry if we are not able to cross the acrimony and emotional distance that so often separates us from our love? and not just in marriage. i have seen the most hurtful, destructive, tragic infighting in lgbt and aids and breast cancer and non-profit activism, all in the name of love.thomas merton also wrote about wars among saints and that "there is a pervasive form of contemporary violence to which the idealist most easily succumbs: activism and overwork. the frenzy of our activism neutralizes our work for peace. it destroys our own inner capacity for peace." too often our dreams become these compartmentalized fixations on some future that destroy our ability to be present for our lives right now. our dreams of a better life for some future humanity or some other humanity in another country alienate us from the beautiful human beings sitting next to us at this very moment.well, that's just the price of progress, we say. you can go to the moon or you can have stability in your family life. and we can't conceive of dreaming in both dimensions at the same time. and we don't set the bar much higher than stability when it comes to our emotional life. which is why our technology for talking to one another has gone vertical, our ability to listen and understand one another has gone nowhere. our access to information is through the roof, our access to joy, grounded. but this idea, that our present and our future are mutually exclusive, that to fulfill our potential for doing we have to surrender our profound potential for being, that the number of transistors on a circuit can be doubled and doubled, but our capacity for compassion and humanity and serenity and love is somehow limited is a false and suffocating choice.now, i'm not suggesting simply the uninspiring idea of more work-life balance. what good is it for me to spend more time with my kids at home if my mind is always somewhere else while i'm doing it? i'm not even talking about mindfulness. mindfulness is all of a sudden becoming a tool for improving productivity. right?i'm talking about dreaming as boldly in the dimension of our being as we do about industry and technology. i'm talking about an audacious authenticity that allows us to cry with one another, a heroic humility that allows us to remove our masks and be real. it is our inability to be with one another, our fear of crying with one another, that gives rise to so many of the problems we are frantically trying to solve in the first place, from congressional gridlock to economic inhumanity. i'm talking about what jonas salk called an epoch b, a new epoch in which we become as excited about and curious about and scientific about the development of our humanity as we are about the development of our technology.we should not shrink from this opportunity simply because we don't really understand it. there was a time when we didn't understand space. or because we're more used to technology and activism. that is the very definition of being stuck in a comfort zone. we are now very comfortable imagining unimaginable technological achievement. in 2016, it is the dimension of our being itself that cries out for its fair share of our imagination.now, we're all here to dream, but maybe if we're honest about it, each of us chasing our own dream. you know, looking at the name tags to see who can help me with my dream, sometimes looking right through one another's humanity. i can't be bothered with you right now. i have an idea for saving the world. right? years ago, once upon a time, i had this beautiful company that created these long journeys for heroic civic engagement. and we had this mantra: "human. kind. be both." and we encouraged people to experiment outrageously with kindness. like, "go help everybody set up their tents." and there were a lot of tents. "go buy everybody popsicles." "go help people fix their flat tires even though you know the dinner line is going to get longer."and people really took us up on this, so much so that if you got a flat tire on the aids ride, you had trouble fixing it, because there were so many people there asking you if you needed help.for a few days, for tens of thousands of people, we created these worlds that everybody said were the way they wish the world could always be. what if we experimented with creating that kind of world these next few days? and instead of going up to someone and asking them, "what do you do?" ask them, "so what are your dreams?" or "what are your broken dreams?" you know, "ted." tend to each other's dreams. maybe it's "i want to stay sober" or "i want to build a tree house with my kid." you know, instead of going up to the person everybody wants to meet, go up to the person who is all alone and ask them if they want to grab a cup of coffee.i think what we fear most is that we will be denied the opportunity to fulfill our true potential, that we are born to dream and we might die without ever having the chance.imagine living in a world where we simply recognize that deep, existential fear in one another and love one another boldly because we know that to be human is to live with that fear. it's time for us to dream in multiple dimensions simultaneously, and somewhere that transcends all of the wondrous things we can and will and must do lies the domain of all the unbelievable things we could be.it's time we set foot into that dimension and came out about the fact that we have dreams there, too. if the moon could dream, i think that would be its dream for us. it's an honor to be with you.thank you very much. <title = "A sci-fi vision of love from a 318-year-old hologram">
<tags = "['adventure', 'aging', 'beauty', 'communication', 'death', 'entertainment', 'exploration', 'future', 'humanity', 'identity', 'literature', 'performance', 'relationships', 'space', 'storytelling', 'universe', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Author and playwright">
do i look real to you? hope so. i have no idea if you're seeing this, but i'm just going to look ahead and trust that you're there. i've drawn a semicircle in the sand in front of me so i don't walk past it and look like i'm floating in midair.right now i'm standing in the open air, on a beach under a palm tree, in the exact spot where your stage used to be. i have 12 minutes with you. i set a limit. my wife navid once said that infinite possibility is a creator's worst enemy. for example, this dress: i'd asked her to design something that a priest might have worn in 23rd-century cairo. but we only had three days to make it, and the only fabric we had was an old duvet cover that another resident left behind. but she did it, and it's perfect. and she looked at it and said, "proof of concept — creation needs constraint." so with these 12 minutes, i'm going to tell you about my greatest discovery.for my whole life, my obsession has been eternal life, as i know it is so many of yours. you may be happy to know that your research will pay off. i am 318 years old. the average human lifespan is now 432 years, and my work has been to extend the human lifespan indefinitely. and i've never questioned that someday, we'll reach a point where we'll be content. but the opposite keeps happening: the longer we live, the longer we want to live, the less we want to die.who can blame us? the universe is so big. there won't ever not be more to see. just yesterday, i was reading about how you can take out a boat on europa and sail from island to island all over the planet, and some of the islands have villages that you can stay and visit and sleep under the shadow of jupiter. and then there's this other island where there's just one songwriter who sits and plays mandolin for the ocean. and then there are others where there's no one and there never has been, and so you go just for the pleasure of touching your foot to sand that no foot has ever touched before. you could spend 400 years doing just that.right now the moon is rising in the northeast. i can see the cities on it with my naked eye. they're connected like nerve clusters: mariapolis on the south pole, and ramachandran on the equator. and new tehran in the sea of tranquility.that's where navid and i met. we were both artists downtown. the day we met, we were passing each other in azadi square, and we bumped shoulders. and i turned to apologize and she, without saying hello or introducing herself or anything, said, "well, why do you think we didn't just pass through each other?" and first of all, i thought, "who the hell are you?" but second, the question annoyed me, because the answer is so simple. i said, "we didn't pass through each other because elementary particles have mass and because the space between elementary particles is filled with the binding energy that also has the properties of mass, and we've known that for 800 years." she must have been in one of those moods where she likes to mess with strangers. or maybe she was just flirting with me, because she looked at me and said, "i thought you'd say that. think deeper." and then she took off her belt, this belt that i'm wearing now, and she said, "our universe is built so that particles have mass. without that basic constraint, we'd have just passed right through each other at the speed of light and never even known."and that's how our romance began. navid and i never ran out of things to talk about. never. it was incredible. it was like we were both heroes climbing up into a mountain range together and we kept arriving at new vistas, and these new, perfect constellations of words would come out of us to describe them. and we'd forget them as soon as we made them, and throw them over our shoulder and go on to the next thing, on and up. or one time, navid said that our talk was like we were always making bread, and that we were always adding in a little more flour and a little more water, and folding it in and turning it over and never getting around to baking it.if my obsession was eternal life, navid's obsession was touch. she had a genius for it. all of her work revolved around it. my body was like a canvas for her, and she would draw her fingertip down over my face so slowly that i couldn't feel it moving. and she was obsessed with the exact moment when i would stop being able to tell the difference between her body and mine. or she would just lie across me and dig her shoulder into mine and say, "pilar, why does this feel so good?" i'd say, "i don't know!" and she always had a facetious answer for her facetious question, but the answer i remember today is, "it feels good because the universe chose its constraints, and we are its art."it's always funny what you think the future is going to be like versus what it turns out to be. in your time, scientists thought humans could freeze themselves and wake up in the future. and they did — but then they died. in your time, scientists thought humans could replace organs and extend life for hundreds of years. and they did, but eventually, they died anyway. in your time, earth is the only place people live. in my time, earth is the place people come to die.so when navid started to show the signs, our friends assumed i would do what everyone does, which is say goodbye and send her to earth, so that none of us would have to look at her or be around her or think about her and her ... failure to keep living. more than anything, they didn't want to be around her actual physical body. they kept referring to it as "declining," even though she herself was fascinated by it, the changes it was going through, following the rules of its nature day by day, independent of her will. i did send navid to earth. but i came with her. i remember a friend of ours, just before we left, said, "i just think it's arrogant, like the rules don't apply to you, like you think your love is that special." but i did.so, even here on earth, i kept working on how to extend life. it didn't occur to me that there could be any other response. i kept going back to that thing that navid said to me that day in azadi square, that without that basic constraint — a universe that granted mass to matter — we would not exist. that's one rule. another rule is that all mass is subject to entropy. and there is no way to be in this universe without mass. i know. i tried everything. i tried creating a photon box where the higgs field was altered. i tried recording all subatomic movements in my body and replaying them on closed loop. nothing worked.but my final innovation was to create a coil dimension with the boundaries of a body in which time moved infinitely slower, but whose projection would appear to move in normal time. that body would then appear in our universe as a hologram — here but not here. when i realized i'd done it, i ran to her room, so happy to tell her i'd done it, moving through space almost normally to all eyes, even to my own, and went to lie down next to her, and forgot, and fell right through her. i'd found a way to eternal life, at the expense of the one thing navid loved most, which was to touch and be touched. and she threw me out. i still got to watch, though.humans live 400 years now, and we still die. and when death comes, the dying still pick at their bedsheets, and their arms break out in blue and violet blooms on the insides, and their breaths get further and further apart, like they're falling asleep.i've always thought that what gives a life meaning is adventure. and death is just a problem we haven't discovered the solution to yet. but maybe a life has meaning only because it ends. maybe that's the paradox: constraints don't constrain, they allow perfect freedom.(sighs)there was a thunderstorm here this morning. there is another forecast for tonight, but for now the sky is clear. i can't feel the wind here, but i just asked one of the caretakers who passed by what it felt like, and she said it felt warm, like melted butter. an answer worthy of my wife. i have to find my way back to the flesh. until then, i take up no space but the space you give me.<title = "This virtual lab will revolutionize science class">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'collaboration', 'demo', 'education', 'entrepreneur', 'future', 'innovation', 'interface design', 'invention', 'potential', 'product design', 'science', 'technology', 'virtual reality', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Entrepreneur">
today, i am going to show you how this tablet and this virtual-reality headset that i'm wearing are going to completely revolutionize science education. and i'm also going to show you how it can make any science teacher more than twice as effective. but before i show you how all of this is possible, let's talk briefly about why improving the quality of science education is so vitally important.if you think about it, the world is growing incredibly fast. and with that growth comes a whole list of growing challenges, challenges such as dealing with global warming, solving starvation and water shortages and curing diseases, to name just a few.and who, exactly, is going to help us solve all of these great challenges? well, to a very last degree, it is these young students. this is the next generation of young, bright scientists. and in many ways, we all rely on them for coming up with new, great innovations to help us solve all these challenges ahead of us. and so a couple of years back, my cofounder and i were teaching university students just like these, only the students we were teaching looked a little bit more like this here. and yes, this is really the reality out there in way too many universities around the world: students that are bored, disengaged and sometimes not even sure why they're learning about a topic in the first place.so we started looking around for new, innovative teaching methods, but what we found was quite disappointing. we saw that books were being turned into e-books, blackboards were being turned into youtube videos and lecture hall monologues were being turned into moocs — massive online open courses. and if you think about it, all we're really doing here is taking the same content and the same format, and bringing it out to more students — which is great, don't get me wrong, that is really great — but the teaching method is still more or less the same, no real innovation there.so we started looking elsewhere. what we found was that flight simulators had been proven over and over again to be far more effective when used in combination with real, in-flight training to train the pilots. and so we thought to ourselves: why not just apply that to science? why not build a virtual laboratory simulator?well, we did it. we basically set out to create a fully simulated, one-to-one, virtual reality laboratory simulator, where the students could perform experiments with mathematical equations that would simulate what would happen in a real-world lab. but not just simple simulations — we would also create advanced simulations with top universities like mit, to bring out cutting-edge cancer research to these students. and suddenly, the universities could save millions of dollars by letting the students perform virtual experiments before they go into the real laboratory. and not only that; now, they could also understand — even on a molecular level inside the machine — what is happening to the machines. and then they could suddenly perform dangerous experiments in the labs as well. for instance also here, learning about salmonella bacteria, which is an important topic that many schools cannot teach for good safety reasons. and we, of course, quiz the students and then give the teachers a full dashboard, so they fully understand where the students are at.but we didn't stop there, because we had seen just how important meaning is for the students' engagement in the class. so we brought in game designers to create fun and engaging stories. for instance, here in this case, where the students have to solve a mysterious csi murder case using their core science skills.and the feedback we got when we launched all of this was quite overwhelmingly positive. here we have 300 students, all passionately solving csi murder cases while learning core science skills. and what i love the most about this is really when the students come up to me sometimes afterwards, all surprised and a little confused, and say, "i just spent two hours in this virtual lab, and ... and i didn't check facebook." that's how engaging and immersive this really is for the students.and so, to investigate whether this really worked, a learning psychologist did a study with 160 students — that was from stanford university and technical university of denmark. and what they did is split the students into two groups. one group would only use the virtual laboratory simulations, the other group would only use traditional teaching methods, and they had the same amount of time. then, interestingly, they gave the students a test before and after the experiment, so they could clearly measure the learning impact of the students. and what they found was a surprisingly high 76 percent increase in the learning effectiveness when using virtual laboratories over traditional teaching methods.but even more interestingly, the second part of this study investigated what the teacher's impact was on the learning. and what they found was that when you combined the virtual laboratories with teacher-led coaching and mentoring, then we saw a total 101 percent increase in the learning effectiveness, which effectively doubles the science teacher's impact with the same amount of time spent. so a couple of months back, we started asking ourselves — we have a wonderful team now of learning psychologists and teachers and scientists and game developers — and we started asking ourselves: how can we keep ourselves to our promise of constantly reimagining education?and today, i am really excited to be presenting what we came up with and have been working incredibly hard to create. i will explain briefly what this is. basically, i take my mobile phone — most students already have these, smartphones — and i plug it into this virtual-reality headset, a low-cost headset. and now what i can effectively do is, i can literally step into this virtual world. we'll have some of you in the audience also get to try this, because it is really something that you have to try to fully feel how immersive it really is. it literally feels like i just stepped inside this virtual lab. do you see me up on the screen?audience: yes.michael bodekaer: great! awesome.so basically, i have just turned my mobile phone into a fully simulated, million-dollar ivy league laboratory with all this amazing equipment that i can interact with. i can, for instance, pick up the pipette and do experiments with it. i have my e-ggel, my pcr and — oh, look there, i have my next-generation sequencing machine, and there i even have my electron microscope. i mean, who's carrying around an electron microscope in their pocket? and here i have my machine, i can do different experiments on the machine. and over here i have the door, i can go into other experiments, i can perform in the laboratories. and here, i have my learning tablet. this is an intelligent tablet that allows me to read about relevant theory. as you can see, i can interact with it. i can watch videos and see content that is relevant to the experiment that i'm performing right now. then over here, i have marie. she is my teacher — my lab assistant — and what she does is guides me through this whole laboratory. and very soon, the teachers will be able to literally teleport themselves into this virtual world that i'm in right now and help me, guide me, through this whole experiment.and now before i finalize this, i want to show you an even cooler thing, i think — something you cannot even do in real laboratories. this is a pcr machine. i'm now going to start this experiment. and what i just did is literally shrunk myself a million times into the size of a molecule — and it really feels like it, you have to try this. so now it feels like i'm standing inside the machine and i'm seeing all the dna, and i see the molecules. i see the polymerase and the enzymes and so forth. and i can see how in this case, dna is being replicated millions of times, just like it's happening inside your body right now. and i can really feel and understand how all of this works.now, i hope that gives you a little bit of a sense of the possibilities in these new teaching methods. and i want to also emphasize that everything you just saw also works on ipads and laptops without the headsets. i say that for a very important reason. in order for us to really empower and inspire the next generation of scientists, we really need teachers to drive the adoption of new technologies in the classroom. and so in many ways, i believe that the next big, quantum leap in science education lies no longer with the technology, but rather with the teachers' decision to push forward and adopt these technologies inside the classrooms. and so it is our hope that more universities and schools and teachers will collaborate with technology companies to realize this full potential.and so, lastly, i'd like to leave you with a little story that really inspires me. and that is the story of jack andraka. some of you might already know him. jack invented a new, groundbreaking low-cost test for pancreatic cancer at the age 15. and when jack shares his story of how he did this huge breakthrough, he also explains that one thing almost prevented him from making this breakthrough. and that was that he did not have access to real laboratories, because he was too inexperienced to be allowed in.now, imagine if we could bring ivy league, million-dollar virtual laboratories out to all these students just like jack, all over the world, and give them the latest, greatest, most fancy machines you can imagine that would quite literally make any scientist in here jump up and down out of pure excitement. and then imagine how that would empower and inspire a whole new generation of young and bright scientists, ready to innovate and change the world.thank you very much. <title = "Gene editing can now change an entire species -- forever">
<tags = "['Bioethics', 'CRISPR', 'DNA', 'Debate', 'biotech', 'choice', 'disease', 'engineering', 'future', 'genetics', 'health', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'journalism', 'life', 'morality', 'potential', 'public health', 'science', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Science journalist">
so this is a talk about gene drives, but i'm going to start by telling you a brief story. 20 years ago, a biologist named anthony james got obsessed with the idea of making mosquitos that didn't transmit malaria.it was a great idea, and pretty much a complete failure. for one thing, it turned out to be really hard to make a malaria-resistant mosquito. james managed it, finally, just a few years ago, by adding some genes that make it impossible for the malaria parasite to survive inside the mosquito.but that just created another problem. now that you've got a malaria-resistant mosquito, how do you get it to replace all the malaria-carrying mosquitos? there are a couple options, but plan a was basically to breed up a bunch of the new genetically-engineered mosquitos release them into the wild and hope that they pass on their genes. the problem was that you'd have to release literally 10 times the number of native mosquitos to work. so in a village with 10,000 mosquitos, you release an extra 100,000. as you might guess, this was not a very popular strategy with the villagers. then, last january, anthony james got an email from a biologist named ethan bier. bier said that he and his grad student valentino gantz had stumbled on a tool that could not only guarantee that a particular genetic trait would be inherited, but that it would spread incredibly quickly. if they were right, it would basically solve the problem that he and james had been working on for 20 years.as a test, they engineered two mosquitos to carry the anti-malaria gene and also this new tool, a gene drive, which i'll explain in a minute. finally, they set it up so that any mosquitos that had inherited the anti-malaria gene wouldn't have the usual white eyes, but would instead have red eyes. that was pretty much just for convenience so they could tell just at a glance which was which.so they took their two anti-malarial, red-eyed mosquitos and put them in a box with 30 ordinary white-eyed ones, and let them breed. in two generations, those had produced 3,800 grandchildren. that is not the surprising part. this is the surprising part: given that you started with just two red-eyed mosquitos and 30 white-eyed ones, you expect mostly white-eyed descendants. instead, when james opened the box, all 3,800 mosquitos had red eyes.when i asked ethan bier about this moment, he became so excited that he was literally shouting into the phone. that's because getting only red-eyed mosquitos violates a rule that is the absolute cornerstone of biology, mendelian genetics. i'll keep this quick, but mendelian genetics says when a male and a female mate, their baby inherits half of its dna from each parent. so if our original mosquito was aa and our new mosquito is ab, where b is the anti-malarial gene, the babies should come out in four permutations: aa, ab, aa, ba. instead, with the new gene drive, they all came out ab. biologically, that shouldn't even be possible.so what happened? the first thing that happened was the arrival of a gene-editing tool known as crispr in 2012. many of you have probably heard about crispr, so i'll just say briefly that crispr is a tool that allows researchers to edit genes very precisely, easily and quickly. it does this by harnessing a mechanism that already existed in bacteria. basically, there's a protein that acts like a scissors and cuts the dna, and there's an rna molecule that directs the scissors to any point on the genome you want. the result is basically a word processor for genes. you can take an entire gene out, put one in, or even edit just a single letter within a gene. and you can do it in nearly any species.ok, remember how i said that gene drives originally had two problems? the first was that it was hard to engineer a mosquito to be malaria-resistant. that's basically gone now, thanks to crispr. but the other problem was logistical. how do you get your trait to spread? this is where it gets clever.a couple years ago, a biologist at harvard named kevin esvelt wondered what would happen if you made it so that crispr inserted not only your new gene but also the machinery that does the cutting and pasting. in other words, what if crispr also copied and pasted itself. you'd end up with a perpetual motion machine for gene editing. and that's exactly what happened. this crispr gene drive that esvelt created not only guarantees that a trait will get passed on, but if it's used in the germline cells, it will automatically copy and paste your new gene into both chromosomes of every single individual. it's like a global search and replace, or in science terms, it makes a heterozygous trait homozygous.so, what does this mean? for one thing, it means we have a very powerful, but also somewhat alarming new tool. up until now, the fact that gene drives didn't work very well was actually kind of a relief. normally when we mess around with an organism's genes, we make that thing less evolutionarily fit. so biologists can make all the mutant fruit flies they want without worrying about it. if some escape, natural selection just takes care of them.what's remarkable and powerful and frightening about gene drives is that that will no longer be true. assuming that your trait does not have a big evolutionary handicap, like a mosquito that can't fly, the crispr-based gene drive will spread the change relentlessly until it is in every single individual in the population. now, it isn't easy to make a gene drive that works that well, but james and esvelt think that we can.the good news is that this opens the door to some remarkable things. if you put an anti-malarial gene drive in just 1 percent of anopheles mosquitoes, the species that transmits malaria, researchers estimate that it would spread to the entire population in a year. so in a year, you could virtually eliminate malaria. in practice, we're still a few years out from being able to do that, but still, a 1,000 children a day die of malaria. in a year, that number could be almost zero. the same goes for dengue fever, chikungunya, yellow fever.and it gets better. say you want to get rid of an invasive species, like get asian carp out of the great lakes. all you have to do is release a gene drive that makes the fish produce only male offspring. in a few generations, there'll be no females left, no more carp. in theory, this means we could restore hundreds of native species that have been pushed to the brink.ok, that's the good news, this is the bad news. gene drives are so effective that even an accidental release could change an entire species, and often very quickly. anthony james took good precautions. he bred his mosquitos in a bio-containment lab and he also used a species that's not native to the us so that even if some did escape, they'd just die off, there'd be nothing for them to mate with. but it's also true that if a dozen asian carp with the all-male gene drive accidentally got carried from the great lakes back to asia, they could potentially wipe out the native asian carp population. and that's not so unlikely, given how connected our world is. in fact, it's why we have an invasive species problem. and that's fish. things like mosquitos and fruit flies, there's literally no way to contain them. they cross borders and oceans all the time.ok, the other piece of bad news is that a gene drive might not stay confined to what we call the target species. that's because of gene flow, which is a fancy way of saying that neighboring species sometimes interbreed. if that happens, it's possible a gene drive could cross over, like asian carp could infect some other kind of carp. that's not so bad if your drive just promotes a trait, like eye color. in fact, there's a decent chance that we'll see a wave of very weird fruit flies in the near future. but it could be a disaster if your drive is deigned to eliminate the species entirely.the last worrisome thing is that the technology to do this, to genetically engineer an organism and include a gene drive, is something that basically any lab in the world can do. an undergraduate can do it. a talented high schooler with some equipment can do it.now, i'm guessing that this sounds terrifying. interestingly though, nearly every scientist i talk to seemed to think that gene drives were not actually that frightening or dangerous. partly because they believe that scientists will be very cautious and responsible about using them. so far, that's been true. but gene drives also have some actual limitations. so for one thing, they work only in sexually reproducing species. so thank goodness, they can't be used to engineer viruses or bacteria. also, the trait spreads only with each successive generation. so changing or eliminating a population is practical only if that species has a fast reproductive cycle, like insects or maybe small vertebrates like mice or fish. in elephants or people, it would take centuries for a trait to spread widely enough to matter.also, even with crispr, it's not that easy to engineer a truly devastating trait. say you wanted to make a fruit fly that feeds on ordinary fruit instead of rotting fruit, with the aim of sabotaging american agriculture. first, you'd have to figure out which genes control what the fly wants to eat, which is already a very long and complicated project. then you'd have to alter those genes to change the fly's behavior to whatever you'd want it to be, which is an even longer and more complicated project. and it might not even work, because the genes that control behavior are complex. so if you're a terrorist and have to choose between starting a grueling basic research program that will require years of meticulous lab work and still might not pan out, or just blowing stuff up? you'll probably choose the later.this is especially true because at least in theory, it should be pretty easy to build what's called a reversal drive. that's one that basically overwrites the change made by the first gene drive. so if you don't like the effects of a change, you can just release a second drive that will cancel it out, at least in theory.ok, so where does this leave us? we now have the ability to change entire species at will. should we? are we gods now? i'm not sure i'd say that. but i would say this: first, some very smart people are even now debating how to regulate gene drives. at the same time, some other very smart people are working hard to create safeguards, like gene drives that self-regulate or peter out after a few generations. that's great. but this technology still requires a conversation. and given the nature of gene drives, that conversation has to be global. what if kenya wants to use a drive but tanzania doesn't? who decides whether to release a gene drive that can fly?i don't have the answer to that question. all we can do going forward, i think, is talk honestly about the risks and benefits and take responsibility for our choices. by that i mean, not just the choice to use a gene drive, but also the choice not to use one. humans have a tendency to assume that the safest option is to preserve the status quo. but that's not always the case. gene drives have risks, and those need to be discussed, but malaria exists now and kills 1,000 people a day. to combat it, we spray pesticides that do grave damage to other species, including amphibians and birds.so when you hear about gene drives in the coming months, and trust me, you will be hearing about them, remember that. it can be frightening to act, but sometimes, not acting is worse. <title = "This is your brain on communication">
<tags = "['brain', 'cognitive science', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'language', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'science', 'speech']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist">
imagine that you invented a device that can record my memories, my dreams, my ideas, and transmit them to your brain. that would be a game-changing technology, right? but in fact, we already possess this device, and it's called human communication system and effective storytelling. to understand how this device works, we have to look into our brains. and we have to formulate the question in a slightly different manner.now we have to ask how these neuron patterns in my brain that are associated with my memories and ideas are transmitted into your brains. and we think there are two factors that enable us to communicate. first, your brain is now physically coupled to the sound wave that i'm transmitting to your brain. and second, we developed a common neural protocol that enabled us to communicate.so how do we know that? in my lab in princeton, we bring people to the fmri scanner and we scan their brains while they are either telling or listening to real-life stories. and to give you a sense of the stimulus we are using, let me play 20 seconds from a story that we used, told by a very talented storyteller, jim o'grady.(audio) jim o'grady: so i'm banging out my story and i know it's good, and then i start to make it better — by adding an element of embellishment. reporters call this "making shit up." and they recommend against crossing that line. but i had just seen the line crossed between a high-powered dean and assault with a pastry. and i kinda liked it."uri hasson: ok, so now let's look into your brain and see what's happening when you listen to these kinds of stories. and let's start simple — let's start with one listener and one brain area: the auditory cortex that processes the sounds that come from the ear. and as you can see, in this particular brain area, the responses are going up and down as the story is unfolding. now we can take these responses and compare them to the responses in other listeners in the same brain area. and we can ask: how similar are the responses across all listeners?so here you can see five listeners. and we start to scan their brains before the story starts, when they're simply lying in the dark and waiting for the story to begin. as you can see, the brain area is going up and down in each one of them, but the responses are very different, and not in sync. however, immediately as the story is starting, something amazing is happening.(audio) jo: so i'm banging out my story and i know it's good, and then i start to make it —uh: suddenly, you can see that the responses in all of the subjects lock to the story, and now they are going up and down in a very similar way across all listeners. and in fact, this is exactly what is happening now in your brains when you listen to my sound speaking. we call this effect "neural entrainment." and to explain to you what is neural entrainment, let me first explain what is physical entrainment.so, we'll look and see five metronomes. think of these five metronomes as five brains. and similar to the listeners before the story starts, these metronomes are going to click, but they're going to click out of phase.(clicking)now see what will happen when i connect them together by placing them on these two cylinders.(clicking)now these two cylinders start to rotate. this rotation vibration is going through the wood and is going to couple all the metronomes together. and now listen to the click.(synchronized clicking)this is what you call physical entrainment. now let's go back to the brain and ask: what's driving this neural entrainment? is it simply the sounds that the speaker is producing? or maybe it's the words. or maybe it's the meaning that the speaker is trying to convey.so to test it, we did the following experiment. first, we took the story and played it backwards. and that preserved many of the original auditory features, but removed the meaning. and it sounds something like that.(audio) jo: (unintelligible)and we flashed colors in the two brains to indicate brain areas that respond very similarly across people. and as you can see, this incoming sound induced entrainment or alignment in all of the brains in auditory cortices that process the sounds, but it didn't spread deeper into the brain.now we can take these sounds and build words out of it. so if we take jim o'grady and scramble the words, we'll get a list of words.(audio) jo: ... an animal ... assorted facts ... and right on ... pie man ... potentially ... my storiesuh: and you can see that these words start to induce alignment in early language areas, but not more than that. now we can take the words and start to build sentences out of them.(audio) jo: and they recommend against crossing that line. he says: "dear jim, good story. nice details. didn't she only know about him through me?"uh: now you can see that the responses in all the language areas that process the incoming language become aligned or similar across all listeners. however, only when we use the full, engaging, coherent story do the responses spread deeper into the brain into higher-order areas, which include the frontal cortex and the parietal cortex, and make all of them respond very similarly. and we believe that these responses in higher-order areas are induced or become similar across listeners because of the meaning conveyed by the speaker, and not by words or sound. and if we are right, there's a strong prediction over here if i tell you the exact same ideas using two very different sets of words, your brain responses will still be similar.and to test it, we did the following experiment in my lab. we took the english story and translated it to russian. now you have two different sounds and linguistic systems that convey the exact same meaning. and you play the english story to the english listeners and the russian story to the russian listeners, and we can compare their responses across the groups. and when we did that, we didn't see responses that are similar in auditory cortices in language, because the language and sound are very different. however, you can see that the responses in high-order areas were still similar across these two groups. we believe this is because they understood the story in a very similar way, as we confirmed, using a test after the story ended.and we think that this alignment is necessary for communication. for example, as you can tell, i am not a native english speaker. i grew up with another language, and the same might be for many of you in the audience. and still, we can communicate. how come? we think we can communicate because we have this common code that presents meaning.so far, i've only talked about what's happening in the listener's brain, in your brain, when you're listening to talks. but what's happening in the speaker's brain, in my brain, when i'm speaking to you? to look in the speaker's brain, we asked the speaker to go into the scanner, we scan his brain and then compare his brain responses to the brain responses of the listeners listening to the story. you have to remember that producing speech and comprehending speech are very different processes. here we're asking: how similar are they? to our surprise, we saw that all these complex patterns within the listeners actually came from the speaker brain. so production and comprehension rely on very similar processes. and we also found the stronger the similarity between the listener's brain and the speaker's brain, the better the communication. so i know that if you are completely confused now, and i do hope that this is not the case, your brain responses are very different than mine. but i also know that if you really understand me now, then your brain ... and your brain ... and your brain are really similar to mine.now, let's take all this information together and ask: how can we use it to transmit a memory that i have from my brain to your brains? so we did the following experiment. we let people watch, for the first time in their life, a tv episode from the bbc series "sherlock," while we scanned their brains. and then we asked them to go back to the scanner and tell the story to another person that never watched the movie. so let's be specific. think about this exact scene, when sherlock is entering the cab in london driven by the murderer he is looking for.with me, as a viewer, there is a specific brain pattern in my brain when i watch it. now, the exact same pattern, i can reactivate in my brain again by telling the word: sherlock, london, murderer. and when i'm transmitting these words to your brains now, you have to reconstruct it in your mind. in fact, we see that pattern emerging now in your brains. and we were really surprised to see that the pattern you have now in your brains when i'm describing to you these scenes would be very similar to the pattern i had when i watched this movie a few months ago in the scanner. this starts to tell you about the mechanism by which we can tell stories and transmit information. because, for example, now you're listening really hard and trying to understand what i'm saying. and i know that it's not easy. but i hope that at one point in the talk we clicked, and you got me. and i think that in a few hours, a few days, a few months, you're going to meet someone at a party, and you're going to tell him about this lecture, and suddenly it will be as if he is standing now here with us. now you can see how we can take this mechanism and try to transmit memories and knowledge across people, which is wonderful, right?but our ability to communicate relies on our ability to have common ground. because, for example, if i'm going to use the british synonym "hackney carriage" instead of "cab," i know that i'm going to be misaligned with most of you in the audience. this alignment depends not only on our ability to understand the basic concept; it also depends on our ability to develop common ground and understanding and shared belief systems. because we know that in many cases, people understand the exact same story in very different ways.so to test it in the lab, we did the following experiment. we took a story by j.d. salinger, in which a husband lost track of his wife in the middle of a party, and he's calling his best friend, asking, "did you see my wife?" for half of the subjects, we said that the wife was having an affair with the best friend. for the other half, we said that the wife is loyal and the husband is very jealous. this one sentence before the story started was enough to make the brain responses of all the people that believed the wife was having an affair be very similar in these high-order areas and different than the other group. and if one sentence is enough to make your brain similar to people that think like you and very different than people that think differently than you, think how this effect is going to be amplified in real life, when we are all listening to the exact same news item after being exposed day after day after day to different media channels, like fox news or the new york times, that give us very different perspectives on reality.so let me summarize. if everything worked as planned tonight, i used my ability to vocalize sound to be coupled to your brains. and i used this coupling to transmit my brain patterns associated with my memories and ideas into your brains. in this, i start to reveal the hidden neural mechanism by which we communicate. and we know that in the future it will enable us to improve and facilitate communication. but these studies also reveal that communication relies on a common ground. and we have to be really worried as a society if we lose this common ground and our ability to speak with people that are slightly different than us because we let a few very strong media channels take control of the mic, and manipulate and control the way we all think. and i'm not sure how to fix it because i'm only a scientist. but maybe one way to do it is to go back to the more natural way of communication, which is a dialogue, in which it's not only me speaking to you now, but a more natural way of talking, in which i am speaking and i am listening, and together we are trying to come to a common ground and new ideas. because after all, the people we are coupled to define who we are. and our desire to be coupled to another brain is something very basic that starts at a very early age.so let me finish with an example from my own private life that i think is a good example of how coupling to other people is really going to define who we are.this my son jonathan at a very early age. see how he developed a vocal game together with my wife, only from the desire and pure joy of being coupled to another human being.(both vocalizing) now, think how the ability of my son to be coupled to us and other people in his life is going to shape the man he is going to become. and think how you change on a daily basis from the interaction and coupling to other people in your life.so keep being coupled to other people. keep spreading your ideas, because the sum of all of us together, coupled, is greater than our parts.thank you. <title = "An artist's unflinching look at racial violence">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Buddhism', 'Slavery', 'TED Fellows', 'activism', 'art', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'culture', 'global issues', 'identity', 'inequality', 'motivation', 'race', 'social change', 'society', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Conceptual artist">
as a conceptual artist, i'm constantly looking for creative ways to spark challenging conversations. i do this though painting, sculpture, video and performance. but regardless of the format, two of my favorite materials are history and dialogue.in 2007, i created "lotus," a seven-and-a-half-foot diameter, 600-pound glass depiction of a lotus blossom. in buddhism, the lotus is a symbol for transcendence and for purity of mind and spirit. but a closer look at this lotus reveals each petal to be the cross-section of a slave ship. this iconic diagram was taken from a british slaving manual and later used by abolitionists to show the atrocities of slavery. in america, we don't like to talk about slavery, nor do we look at it as a global industry. but by using this buddhist symbol, i hope to universalize and transcend the history and trauma of black america and encourage discussions about our shared past.to create "lotus," we carved over 6,000 figures. and this later led to a commission by the city of new york to create a 28-foot version in steel as a permanent installation at the eagle academy for young men, a school for black and latino students, the two groups most affected by this history. the same two groups are very affected by a more recent phenomenon, but let me digress.i've been collecting wooden african figures from tourist shops and flea markets around the world. the authenticity and origin of them is completely debatable, but people believe these to be imbued with power, or even magic. only recently have i figured out how to use this in my own work.(gun shots)since 2012, the world has witnessed the killings of trayvon martin, michael brown, eric garner, sandra bland, tamir rice and literally countless other unarmed black citizens at the hands of the police, who frequently walk away with no punishment at all. in consideration of these victims and the several times that even i, a law-abiding, ivy league professor, have been targeted and harassed at gunpoint by the police. i created this body of work simply entitled "bam."it was important to erase the identity of each of these figures, to make them all look the same and easier to disregard. to do this, i dip them in a thick, brown wax before taking them to a shooting range where i re-sculpted them using bullets. and it was fun, playing with big guns and high-speed video cameras. but my reverence for these figures kept me from actually pulling the trigger, somehow feeling as if i would be shooting myself. finally, my cameraman, raul, fired the shots. i then took the fragments of these and created molds, and cast them first in wax, and finally in bronze like the image you see here, which bears the marks of its violent creation like battle wounds or scars.when i showed this work recently in miami, a woman told me she felt every gun shot to her soul. but she also felt that these artworks memorialized the victims of these killings as well as other victims of racial violence throughout us history.but "lotus" and "bam" are larger than just us history. while showing in berlin last year, a philosophy student asked me what prompted these recent killings. i showed him a photo of a lynching postcard from the early 1900s and reminded him that these killings have been going on for over 500 years. but it's only through questions like his and more thoughtful dialogue about history and race can we evolve as individuals and society.i hope my artwork creates a safe space for this type of honest exchange and an opportunity for people to engage one another in real and necessary conversation.thank you. <title = "This tiny particle could roam your body to find tumors">
<tags = "['big problems', 'biotech', 'cancer', 'disease', 'future', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'innovation', 'life', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'potential', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Physician, bioengineer and entrepreneur ">
in the space that used to house one transistor, we can now fit one billion. that made it so that a computer the size of an entire room now fits in your pocket. you might say the future is small.as an engineer, i'm inspired by this miniaturization revolution in computers. as a physician, i wonder whether we could use it to reduce the number of lives lost due to one of the fastest-growing diseases on earth: cancer. now when i say that, what most people hear me say is that we're working on curing cancer. and we are. but it turns out that there's an incredible opportunity to save lives through the early detection and prevention of cancer.worldwide, over two-thirds of deaths due to cancer are fully preventable using methods that we already have in hand today. things like vaccination, timely screening and of course, stopping smoking. but even with the best tools and technologies that we have today, some tumors can't be detected until 10 years after they've started growing, when they are 50 million cancer cells strong. what if we had better technologies to detect some of these more deadly cancers sooner, when they could be removed, when they were just getting started?let me tell you about how miniaturization might get us there. this is a microscope in a typical lab that a pathologist would use for looking at a tissue specimen, like a biopsy or a pap smear. this $7,000 microscope would be used by somebody with years of specialized training to spot cancer cells. this is an image from a colleague of mine at rice university, rebecca richards-kortum. what she and her team have done is miniaturize that whole microscope into this $10 part, and it fits on the end of an optical fiber. now what that means is instead of taking a sample from a patient and sending it to the microscope, you can bring the microscope to the patient. and then, instead of requiring a specialist to look at the images, you can train the computer to score normal versus cancerous cells.now this is important, because what they found working in rural communities, is that even when they have a mobile screening van that can go out into the community and perform exams and collect samples and send them to the central hospital for analysis, that days later, women get a call with an abnormal test result and they're asked to come in. fully half of them don't turn up because they can't afford the trip. with the integrated microscope and computer analysis, rebecca and her colleagues have been able to create a van that has both a diagnostic setup and a treatment setup. and what that means is that they can do a diagnosis and perform therapy on the spot, so no one is lost to follow up.that's just one example of how miniaturization can save lives. now as engineers, we think of this as straight-up miniaturization. you took a big thing and you made it little. but what i told you before about computers was that they transformed our lives when they became small enough for us to take them everywhere. so what is the transformational equivalent like that in medicine? well, what if you had a detector that was so small that it could circulate in your body, find the tumor all by itself and send a signal to the outside world? it sounds a little bit like science fiction. but actually, nanotechnology allows us to do just that. nanotechnology allows us to shrink the parts that make up the detector from the width of a human hair, which is 100 microns, to a thousand times smaller, which is 100 nanometers. and that has profound implications.it turns out that materials actually change their properties at the nanoscale. you take a common material like gold, and you grind it into dust, into gold nanoparticles, and it changes from looking gold to looking red. if you take a more exotic material like cadmium selenide — forms a big, black crystal — if you make nanocrystals out of this material and you put it in a liquid, and you shine light on it, they glow. and they glow blue, green, yellow, orange, red, depending only on their size. it's wild! can you imagine an object like that in the macro world? it would be like all the denim jeans in your closet are all made of cotton, but they are different colors depending only on their size. so as a physician, what's just as interesting to me is that it's not just the color of materials that changes at the nanoscale; the way they travel in your body also changes. and this is the kind of observation that we're going to use to make a better cancer detector.so let me show you what i mean. this is a blood vessel in the body. surrounding the blood vessel is a tumor. we're going to inject nanoparticles into the blood vessel and watch how they travel from the bloodstream into the tumor. now it turns out that the blood vessels of many tumors are leaky, and so nanoparticles can leak out from the bloodstream into the tumor. whether they leak out depends on their size. so in this image, the smaller, hundred-nanometer, blue nanoparticles are leaking out, and the larger, 500-nanometer, red nanoparticles are stuck in the bloodstream. so that means as an engineer, depending on how big or small i make a material, i can change where it goes in your body.in my lab, we recently made a cancer nanodetector that is so small that it could travel into the body and look for tumors. we designed it to listen for tumor invasion: the orchestra of chemical signals that tumors need to make to spread. for a tumor to break out of the tissue that it's born in, it has to make chemicals called enzymes to chew through the scaffolding of tissues. we designed these nanoparticles to be activated by these enzymes. one enzyme can activate a thousand of these chemical reactions in an hour. now in engineering, we call that one-to-a-thousand ratio a form of amplification, and it makes something ultrasensitive. so we've made an ultrasensitive cancer detector.ok, but how do i get this activated signal to the outside world, where i can act on it? for this, we're going to use one more piece of nanoscale biology, and that has to do with the kidney. the kidney is a filter. its job is to filter out the blood and put waste into the urine. it turns out that what the kidney filters is also dependent on size. so in this image, what you can see is that everything smaller than five nanometers is going from the blood, through the kidney, into the urine, and everything else that's bigger is retained. ok, so if i make a 100-nanometer cancer detector, i inject it in the bloodstream, it can leak into the tumor where it's activated by tumor enzymes to release a small signal that is small enough to be filtered out of the kidney and put into the urine, i have a signal in the outside world that i can detect.ok, but there's one more problem. this is a tiny little signal, so how do i detect it? well, the signal is just a molecule. they're molecules that we designed as engineers. they're completely synthetic, and we can design them so they are compatible with our tool of choice. if we want to use a really sensitive, fancy instrument called a mass spectrometer, then we make a molecule with a unique mass. or maybe we want make something that's more inexpensive and portable. then we make molecules that we can trap on paper, like a pregnancy test. in fact, there's a whole world of paper tests that are becoming available in a field called paper diagnostics.alright, where are we going with this? what i'm going to tell you next, as a lifelong researcher, represents a dream of mine. i can't say that's it's a promise; it's a dream. but i think we all have to have dreams to keep us pushing forward, even — and maybe especially — cancer researchers.i'm going to tell you what i hope will happen with my technology, that my team and i will put our hearts and souls into making a reality. ok, here goes. i dream that one day, instead of going into an expensive screening facility to get a colonoscopy, or a mammogram, or a pap smear, that you could get a shot, wait an hour, and do a urine test on a paper strip. i imagine that this could even happen without the need for steady electricity, or a medical professional in the room. maybe they could be far away and connected only by the image on a smartphone.now i know this sounds like a dream, but in the lab we already have this working in mice, where it works better than existing methods for the detection of lung, colon and ovarian cancer. and i hope that what this means is that one day we can detect tumors in patients sooner than 10 years after they've started growing, in all walks of life, all around the globe, and that this would lead to earlier treatments, and that we could save more lives than we can today, with early detection.thank you. <title = "Can you really tell if a kid is lying?">
<tags = "['body language', 'children', 'communication', 'decision-making', 'intelligence', 'motivation', 'parenting', 'psychology', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Developmental researcher">
hi. let me ask the audience a question: did you ever lie as a child? if you did, could you please raise your hand? wow! this is the most honest group of people i've ever met. so for the last 20 years, i've been studying how children learn to tell lies. and today, i'm going to share with you some of the discoveries we have made.but to begin, i'm going to tell you a story from mr. richard messina, who is my friend and an elementary school principal. he got a phone call one day. the caller says, "mr. messina, my son johnny will not come to school today because he's sick."mr. messina asks, "who am i speaking to, please?"and the caller says, "i am my father." so this story — sums up very nicely three common beliefs we have about children and lying. one, children only come to tell lies after entering elementary school. two, children are poor liars. we adults can easily detect their lies. and three, if children lie at a very young age, there must be some character flaws with them, and they are going to become pathological liars for life. well, it turns out all of the three beliefs are wrong.we have been playing guessing games with children all over the world. here is an example. so in this game, we asked children to guess the numbers on the cards. and we tell them if they win the game, they are going to get a big prize. but in the middle of the game, we make an excuse and leave the room. and before we leave the room, we tell them not to peek at the cards. of course, we have hidden cameras in the room to watch their every move. because the desire to win the game is so strong, more than 90 percent of children will peek as soon as we leave the room. the crucial question is: when we return and ask the children whether or not they have peeked, will the children who peeked confess or lie about their transgression?we found that regardless of gender, country, religion, at two years of age, 30 percent lie, 70 percent tell the truth about their transgression. at three years of age, 50 percent lie and 50 percent tell the truth. at four years of age, more than 80 percent lie. and after four years of age, most children lie. so as you can see, lying is really a typical part of development. and some children begin to tell lies as young as two years of age.so now, let's take a closer look at the younger children. why do some but not all young children lie? in cooking, you need good ingredients to cook good food. and good lying requires two key ingredients. the first key ingredient is theory of mind, or the mind-reading ability. mind reading is the ability to know that different people have different knowledge about the situation and the ability to differentiate between what i know and what you know. mind reading is important for lying because the basis of lying is that i know you don't know what i know. therefore, i can lie to you.the second key ingredient for good lying is self-control. it is the ability to control your speech, your facial expression and your body language, so that you can tell a convincing lie. and we found that those young children who have more advanced mind-reading and self-control abilities tell lies earlier and are more sophisticated liars. as it turns out, these two abilities are also essential for all of us to function well in our society. in fact, deficits in mind-reading and self-control abilities are associated with serious developmental problems, such as adhd and autism. so if you discover your two-year-old is telling his or her first lie, instead of being alarmed, you should celebrate — because it signals that your child has arrived at a new milestone of typical development.now, are children poor liars? do you think you can easily detect their lies? would you like to give it a try? yes? ok. so i'm going to show you two videos. in the videos, the children are going to respond to a researcher's question, "did you peek?" so try to tell me which child is lying and which child is telling the truth. here's child number one. are you ready?(video) adult: did you peek? child: no.kang lee: and this is child number two.(video) adult: did you peek? child: no.kl: ok, if you think child number one is lying, please raise your hand. and if you think child number two is lying, please raise your hand. ok, so as a matter of fact, child number one is telling the truth, child number two is lying. looks like many of you are terrible detectors of children's lies. now, we have played similar kinds of games with many, many adults from all walks of life. and we show them many videos. in half of the videos, the children lied. in the other half of the videos, the children told the truth. and let's find out how these adults performed. because there are as many liars as truth tellers, if you guess randomly, there's a 50 percent chance you're going to get it right. so if your accuracy is around 50 percent, it means you are a terrible detector of children's lies.so let's start with undergrads and law school students, who typically have limited experience with children. no, they cannot detect children's lies. their performance is around chance.now how about social workers and child-protection lawyers, who work with children on a daily basis? can they detect children's lies? no, they cannot. what about judges, customs officers and police officers, who deal with liars on a daily basis? can they detect children's lies? no, they cannot.what about parents? can parents detect other children's lies? no, they cannot.what about, can parents detect their own children's lies? no, they cannot.  so now you may ask why children's lies are so difficult to detect. let me illustrate this with my own son, nathan. this is his facial expression when he lies. so when children lie, their facial expression is typically neutral. however, behind this neutral expression, the child is actually experiencing a lot of emotions, such as fear, guilt, shame and maybe a little bit of liar's delight. unfortunately, such emotions are either fleeting or hidden. therefore, it's mostly invisible to us.so in the last five years, we have been trying to figure out a way to reveal these hidden emotions. then we made a discovery.we know that underneath our facial skin, there's a rich network of blood vessels. when we experience different emotions, our facial blood flow changes subtly. and these changes are regulated by the autonomic system that is beyond our conscious control. by looking at facial blood flow changes, we can reveal people's hidden emotions. unfortunately, such emotion-related facial blood flow changes are too subtle to detect by our naked eye. so to help us reveal people's facial emotions, we have developed a new imaging technology we call "transdermal optical imaging."to do so, we use a regular video camera to record people when they experience various hidden emotions. and then, using our image processing technology, we can extract transdermal images of facial blood flow changes. by looking at transdermal video images, now we can easily see facial blood flow changes associated with the various hidden emotions. and using this technology, we can now reveal the hidden emotions associated with lying, and therefore detect people's lies. we can do so noninvasively, remotely, inexpensively, with an accuracy at about 85 percent, which is far better than chance level.and in addition, we discovered a pinocchio effect. no, not this pinocchio effect. this is the real pinocchio effect. when people lie, the facial blood flow on the cheeks decreases, and the facial blood flow on the nose increases.of course, lying is not the only situation that will evoke our hidden emotions. so then we asked ourselves, in addition to detecting lies, how can our technology be used? one application is in education. for example, using this technology, we can help this mathematics teacher to identify the student in his classroom who may experience high anxiety about the topic he's teaching so that he can help him. and also we can use this in health care. for example, every day i skype my parents, who live thousands of miles away. and using this technology, i can not only find out what's going on in their lives but also simultaneously monitor their heart rate, their stress level, their mood and whether or not they are experiencing pain. and perhaps in the future, their risks for heart attack or hypertension. and you may ask: can we use this also to reveal politicians' emotions? for example, during a debate. well, the answer is yes. using tv footage, we could detect the politicians' heart rate, mood and stress, and perhaps in the future, whether or not they are lying to us. we can also use this in marketing research, for example, to find out whether or not people like certain consumer products. we can even use it in dating. so for example, if your date is smiling at you, this technology can help you to determine whether she actually likes you or she is just trying to be nice to you. and in this case, she is just trying to be nice to you. so transdermal optical imaging technology is at a very early stage of development. many new applications will come about that we don't know today. however, one thing i know for sure is that lying will never be the same again.thank you very much.xiè xie. <title = "Good news in the fight against pancreatic cancer">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'big problems', 'cancer', 'design', 'disease', 'entrepreneur', 'future', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'innovation', 'invention', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'potential', 'product design', 'science']">
<occupation = "Biomedical entrepreneur">
by raising your hand, how many of you know at least one person on the screen? wow, it's almost a full house. it's true, they are very famous in their fields. and do you know what all of them have in common? they all died of pancreatic cancer. however, although it's very, very sad this news, it's also thanks to their personal stories that we have raised awareness of how lethal this disease can be.it's become the third cause of cancer deaths, and only eight percent of the patients will survive beyond five years. that's a very tiny number, especially if you compare it with breast cancer, where the survival rate is almost 90 percent. so it doesn't really come as a surprise that being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer means facing an almost certain death sentence. what's shocking, though, is that in the last 40 years, this number hasn't changed a bit, while much more progress has been made with other types of tumors. so how can we make pancreatic cancer treatment more effective? as a biomedical entrepreneur, i like to work on problems that seem impossible, understanding their limitations and trying to find new, innovative solutions that can change their outcome.the first piece of bad news with pancreatic cancer is that your pancreas is in the middle of your belly, literally. it's depicted in orange on the screen. but you can barely see it until i remove all the other organs in front. it's also surrounded by many other vital organs, like the liver, the stomach, the bile duct. and the ability of the tumor to grow into those organs is the reason why pancreatic cancer is one of the most painful tumor types. the hard-to-reach location also prevents the doctor from surgically removing it, as is routinely done for breast cancer, for example. so all of these reasons leave chemotherapy as the only option for the pancreatic cancer patient.this brings us to the second piece of bad news. pancreatic cancer tumors have very few blood vessels. why should we care about the blood vessel of a tumor? let's think for a second how chemotherapy works. the drug is injected in the vein and it navigates throughout the body until it reaches the tumor site. it's like driving on a highway, trying to reach a destination. but what if your destination doesn't have an exit on the highway? you will never get there. and that's exactly the same problem for chemotherapy and pancreatic cancer. the drugs navigate throughout all of your body. they will reach healthy organs, resulting in high toxic effect for the patients overall, but very little will go to the tumor. therefore, the efficacy is very limited.to me, it seems very counterintuitive to have a whole-body treatment to target a specific organ. however, in the last 40 years, a lot of money, research and effort have gone towards finding new, powerful drugs to treat pancreatic cancer, but nothing has been done in changing the way we deliver them to the patient.so after two pieces of bad news, i'm going to give you good news, hopefully. with a collaborator at mit and the massachusetts general hospital in boston, we have revolutionized the way we treat cancer by making localized drug delivery a reality. we are basically parachuting you on top of your destination, avoiding your having to drive all around the highway. we have embedded the drug into devices that look like this one. they are flexible enough that they can be folded to fit into the catheter, so the doctor can implant it directly on top of the tumor with minimally invasive surgery. but they are solid enough that once they are positioned on top of the tumor, they will act as a cage. they will actually physically prevent the tumor from entering other organs, controlling the metastasis.the devices are also biodegradable. that means that once in the body, they start dissolving, delivering the drug only locally, slowly and more effectively than what is done with the current whole-body treatment. in pre-clinical study, we have demonstrated that this localized approach is able to improve by 12 times the response to treatment.so we took a drug that is already known and by just delivering it locally where it's needed the most, we allow a response that is 12 times more powerful, reducing the systemic toxic effect. we are working relentlessly to bring this technology to the next level. we are finalizing the pre-clinical testing and the animal model required prior to asking the fda for approval for clinical trials.currently, the majority of patients will die from pancreatic cancer. we are hoping that one day, we can reduce their pain, extend their life and potentially make pancreatic cancer a curable disease.by rethinking the way we deliver the drug, we don't only make it more powerful and less toxic, we are also opening the door to finding new innovative solutions for almost all other impossible problems in pancreatic cancer patients and beyond.thank you very much. <title = "Our lonely society makes it hard to come home from war">
<tags = "['PTSD', 'culture', 'death', 'depression', 'film', 'humanity', 'journalism', 'life', 'mental health', 'military', 'pain', 'social change', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Journalist and documentarian">
i worked as a war reporter for 15 years before i realized that i really had a problem. there was something really wrong with me.this was about a year before 9/11, and america wasn't at war yet. we weren't talking about ptsd. we were not yet talking about the effect of trauma and war on the human psyche. i'd been in afghanistan for a couple of months with the northern alliance as they were fighting the taliban. and at that point the taliban had an air force, they had fighter planes, they had tanks, they had artillery, and we really got hammered pretty badly a couple of times. we saw some very ugly things. but i didn't really think it affected me. i didn't think much about it.i came home to new york, where i live. then one day i went down into the subway, and for the first time in my life, i knew real fear. i had a massive panic attack. i was way more scared than i had ever been in afghanistan. everything i was looking at seemed like it was going to kill me, but i couldn't explain why. the trains were going too fast. there were too many people. the lights were too bright. everything was too loud, everything was moving too quickly. i backed up against a support column and just waited for it. when i couldn't take it any longer, i ran out of the subway station and walked wherever i was going.later, i found out that what i had was short-term ptsd: post-traumatic stress disorder. we evolved as animals, as primates, to survive periods of danger, and if your life has been in danger, you want to react to unfamiliar noises. you want to sleep lightly, wake up easily. you want to have nightmares and flashbacks of the thing that could kill you. you want to be angry because it makes you predisposed to fight, or depressed, because it keeps you out of circulation a little bit. keeps you safe. it's not very pleasant, but it's better than getting eaten.most people recover from that pretty quickly. it takes a few weeks, a few months. i kept having panic attacks, but they eventually went away. i had no idea it was connected to the war that i'd seen. i just thought i was going crazy, and then i thought, well, now i'm not going crazy anymore.about 20 percent of people, however, wind up with chronic, long-term ptsd. they are not adapted to temporary danger. they are maladapted for everyday life, unless they get help. we know that the people who are vulnerable to long-term ptsd are people who were abused as children, who suffered trauma as children, people who have low education levels, people who have psychiatric disorders in their family. if you served in vietnam and your brother is schizophrenic, you're way more likely to get long-term ptsd from vietnam.so i started to study this as a journalist, and i realized that there was something really strange going on. the numbers seemed to be going in the wrong direction. every war that we have fought as a country, starting with the civil war, the intensity of the combat has gone down. as a result, the casualty rates have gone down. but disability rates have gone up. they should be going in the same direction, but they're going in different directions.the recent wars in iraq and afghanistan have produced, thank god, a casualty rate about one third of what it was in vietnam. but they've also created — they've also produced three times the disability rates. around 10 percent of the us military is actively engaged in combat, 10 percent or under. they're shooting at people, killing people, getting shot at, seeing their friends get killed. it's incredibly traumatic. but it's only about 10 percent of our military. but about half of our military has filed for some kind of ptsd compensation from the government.and suicide doesn't even fit into this in a very logical way. we've all heard the tragic statistic of 22 vets a day, on average, in this country, killing themselves. most people don't realize that the majority of those suicides are veterans of the vietnam war, that generation, and their decision to take their own lives actually might not be related to the war they fought 50 years earlier. in fact, there's no statistical connection between combat and suicide. if you're in the military and you're in a lot of combat, you're no more likely to kill yourself than if you weren't. in fact, one study found that if you deploy to iraq or afghanistan, you're actually slightly less likely to commit suicide later.i studied anthropology in college. i did my fieldwork on the navajo reservation. i wrote a thesis on navajo long-distance runners. and recently, while i was researching ptsd, i had this thought. i thought back to the work i did when i was young, and i thought, i bet the navajo, the apache, the comanche — i mean, these are very warlike nations — i bet they weren't getting ptsd like we do. when their warriors came back from fighting the us military or fighting each other, i bet they pretty much just slipped right back into tribal life.and maybe what determines the rate of long-term ptsd isn't what happened out there, but the kind of society you come back to. and maybe if you come back to a close, cohesive, tribal society, you can get over trauma pretty quickly. and if you come back to an alienating, modern society, you might remain traumatized your entire life. in other words, maybe the problem isn't them, the vets; maybe the problem is us.certainly, modern society is hard on the human psyche by every metric that we have. as wealth goes up in a society, the suicide rate goes up instead of down. if you live in modern society, you're up to eight times more likely to suffer from depression in your lifetime than if you live in a poor, agrarian society. modern society has probably produced the highest rates of suicide and depression and anxiety and loneliness and child abuse ever in human history. i saw one study that compared women in nigeria, one of the most chaotic and violent and corrupt and poorest countries in africa, to women in north america. and the highest rates of depression were urban women in north america. that was also the wealthiest group.so let's go back to the us military. ten percent are in combat. around 50 percent have filed for ptsd compensation. so about 40 percent of veterans really were not traumatized overseas but have come home to discover they are dangerously alienated and depressed. so what is happening with them? what's going on with those people, the phantom 40 percent that are troubled but don't understand why?maybe it's this: maybe they had an experience of sort of tribal closeness in their unit when they were overseas. they were eating together, sleeping together, doing tasks and missions together. they were trusting each other with their lives. and then they come home and they have to give all that up and they're coming back to a society, a modern society, which is hard on people who weren't even in the military. it's just hard on everybody.and we keep focusing on trauma, ptsd. but for a lot of these people, maybe it's not trauma. i mean, certainly, soldiers are traumatized and the ones who are have to be treated for that. but a lot of them — maybe what's bothering them is actually a kind of alienation. i mean, maybe we just have the wrong word for some of it, and just changing our language, our understanding, would help a little bit. "post-deployment alienation disorder." maybe even just calling it that for some of these people would allow them to stop imagining trying to imagine a trauma that didn't really happen in order to explain a feeling that really is happening. and in fact, it's an extremely dangerous feeling. that alienation and depression can lead to suicide. these people are in danger. it's very important to understand why.the israeli military has a ptsd rate of around one percent. the theory is that everyone in israel is supposed to serve in the military. when soldiers come back from the front line, they're not going from a military environment to a civilian environment. they're coming back to a community where everyone understands about the military. everyone's been in it or is going to be in it. everyone understands the situation they're all in. it's as if they're all in one big tribe.we know that if you take a lab rat and traumatize it and put it in a cage by itself, you can maintain its trauma symptoms almost indefinitely. and if you take that same lab rat and put it in a cage with other rats, after a couple of weeks, it's pretty much ok.after 9/11, the murder rate in new york city went down by 40 percent. the suicide rate went down. the violent crime rate in new york went down after 9/11. even combat veterans of previous wars who suffered from ptsd said that their symptoms went down after 9/11 happened. the reason is that if you traumatize an entire society, we don't fall apart and turn on one another. we come together. we unify. basically, we tribalize, and that process of unifying feels so good and is so good for us, that it even helps people who are struggling with mental health issues. during the blitz in london, admissions to psychiatric wards went down during the bombings.for a while, that was the kind of country that american soldiers came back to — a unified country. we were sticking together. we were trying to understand the threat against us. we were trying to help ourselves and the world. but that's changed. now, american soldiers, american veterans are coming back to a country that is so bitterly divided that the two political parties are literally accusing each other of treason, of being an enemy of the state, of trying to undermine the security and the welfare of their own country. the gap between rich and poor is the biggest it's ever been. it's just getting worse. race relations are terrible. there are demonstrations and even riots in the streets because of racial injustice. and veterans know that any tribe that treated itself that way — in fact, any platoon that treated itself that way — would never survive. we've gotten used to it. veterans have gone away and are coming back and seeing their own country with fresh eyes. and they see what's going on. this is the country they fought for. no wonder they're depressed. no wonder they're scared.sometimes, we ask ourselves if we can save the vets. i think the real question is if we can save ourselves. if we can, i think the vets are going to be fine. it's time for this country to unite, if only to help the men and women who fought to protect us.thank you very much. <title = "The laws that sex workers really want">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'community', 'empathy', 'feminism', 'global issues', 'government', 'identity', 'inequality', 'law', 'policy', 'sex', 'sexual violence', 'social change', 'society', 'trafficking', 'women']">
<occupation = "Sex worker and activist">
i want to talk about sex for money. i'm not like most of the people you'll have heard speaking about prostitution before. i'm not a police officer or a social worker. i'm not an academic, a journalist or a politician. and as you'll probably have picked up from maryam's blurb, i'm not a nun, either. most of those people would tell you that selling sex is degrading; that no one would ever choose to do it; that it's dangerous; women get abused and killed. in fact, most of those people would say, "there should be a law against it!" maybe that sounds reasonable to you. it sounded reasonable to me until the closing months of 2009, when i was working two dead-end, minimum-wage jobs. every month my wages would just replenish my overdraft. i was exhausted and my life was going nowhere. like many others before me, i decided sex for money was a better option. now don't get me wrong — i would have loved to have won the lottery instead. but it wasn't going to happen anytime soon, and my rent needed paying. so i signed up for my first shift in a brothel.in the years that have passed, i've had a lot of time to think. i've reconsidered the ideas i once had about prostitution. i've given a lot of thought to consent and the nature of work under capitalism. i've thought about gender inequality and the sexual and reproductive labor of women. i've experienced exploitation and violence at work. i've thought about what's needed to protect other sex workers from these things. maybe you've thought about them, too. in this talk, i'll take you through the four main legal approaches applied to sex work throughout the world, and explain why they don't work; why prohibiting the sex industry actually exacerbates every harm that sex workers are vulnerable to. then i'm going tell you about what we, as sex workers, actually want.the first approach is full criminalization. half the world, including russia, south africa and most of the us, regulates sex work by criminalizing everyone involved. so that's seller, buyer and third parties. lawmakers in these countries apparently hope that the fear of getting arrested will deter people from selling sex. but if you're forced to choose between obeying the law and feeding yourself or your family, you're going to do the work anyway, and take the risk.criminalization is a trap. it's hard to get a conventional job when you have a criminal record. potential employers won't hire you. assuming you still need money, you'll stay in the more flexible, informal economy. the law forces you to keep selling sex, which is the exact opposite of its intended effect. being criminalized leaves you exposed to mistreatment by the state itself. in many places you may be coerced into paying a bribe or even into having sex with a police officer to avoid arrest. police and prison guards in cambodia, for example, have been documented subjecting sex workers to what can only be described as torture: threats at gunpoint, beatings, electric shocks, rape and denial of food.another worrying thing: if you're selling sex in places like kenya, south africa or new york, a police officer can arrest you if you're caught carrying condoms, because condoms can legally be used as evidence that you're selling sex. obviously, this increases hiv risk. imagine knowing if you're busted carrying condoms, it'll be used against you. it's a pretty strong incentive to leave them at home, right? sex workers working in these places are forced to make a tough choice between risking arrest or having risky sex. what would you choose? would you pack condoms to go to work? how about if you're worried the police officer would rape you when he got you in the van?the second approach to regulating sex work seen in these countries is partial criminalization, where the buying and selling of sex are legal, but surrounding activities, like brothel-keeping or soliciting on the street, are banned. laws like these — we have them in the uk and in france — essentially say to us sex workers, "hey, we don't mind you selling sex, just make sure it's done behind closed doors and all alone." and brothel-keeping, by the way, is defined as just two or more sex workers working together. making that illegal means that many of us work alone, which obviously makes us vulnerable to violent offenders. but we're also vulnerable if we choose to break the law by working together. a couple of years ago, a friend of mine was nervous after she was attacked at work, so i said that she could see her clients from my place for a while. during that time, we had another guy turn nasty. i told the guy to leave or i'd call the police. and he looked at the two of us and said, "you girls can't call the cops. you're working together, this place is illegal." he was right. he eventually left without getting physically violent, but the knowledge that we were breaking the law empowered that man to threaten us. he felt confident he'd get away with it.the prohibition of street prostitution also causes more harm than it prevents. firstly, to avoid getting arrested, street workers take risks to avoid detection, and that means working alone or in isolated locations like dark forests where they're vulnerable to attack. if you're caught selling sex outdoors, you pay a fine. how do you pay that fine without going back to the streets? it was the need for money that saw you in the streets in the first place. and so the fines stack up, and you're caught in a vicious cycle of selling sex to pay the fines you got for selling sex.let me tell you about mariana popa who worked in redbridge, east london. the street workers on her patch would normally wait for clients in groups for safety in numbers and to warn each other about how to avoid dangerous guys. but during a police crackdown on sex workers and their clients, she was forced to work alone to avoid being arrested. she was stabbed to death in the early hours of october 29, 2013. she had been working later than usual to try to pay off a fine she had received for soliciting.so if criminalizing sex workers hurts them, why not just criminalize the people who buy sex? this is the aim of the third approach i want to talk about — the swedish or nordic model of sex-work law. the idea behind this law is that selling sex is intrinsically harmful and so you're, in fact, helping sex workers by removing the option. despite growing support for what's often described as the "end demand" approach, there's no evidence that it works. there's just as much prostitution in sweden as there was before. why might that be? it's because people selling sex often don't have other options for income. if you need that money, the only effect that a drop in business is going have is to force you to lower your prices or offer more risky sexual services. if you need to find more clients, you might seek the help of a manager. so you see, rather than putting a stop to what's often descried as pimping, a law like this actually gives oxygen to potentially abusive third parties.to keep safe in my work, i try not to take bookings from someone who calls me from a withheld number. if it's a home or a hotel visit, i try to get a full name and details. if i worked under the swedish model, a client would be too scared to give me that information. i might have no other choice but to accept a booking from a man who is untraceable if he later turns out to be violent. if you need their money, you need to protect your clients from the police. if you work outdoors, that means working alone or in isolated locations, just as if you were criminalized yourself. it might mean getting into cars quicker, less negotiating time means snap decisions. is this guy dangerous or just nervous? can you afford to take the risk? can you afford not to?something i'm often hearing is, "prostitution would be fine if we made it legal and regulated it." we call that approach legalization, and it's used by countries like the netherlands, germany and nevada in the us. but it's not a great model for human rights. and in state-controlled prostitution, commercial sex can only happen in certain legally-designated areas or venues, and sex workers are made to comply with special restrictions, like registration and forced health checks. regulation sounds great on paper, but politicians deliberately make regulation around the sex industry expensive and difficult to comply with. it creates a two-tiered system: legal and illegal work. we sometimes call it "backdoor criminalization." rich, well-connected brothel owners can comply with the regulations, but more marginalized people find those hoops impossible to jump through. and even if it's possible in principle, getting a license or proper venue takes time and costs money. it's not going to be an option for someone who's desperate and needs money tonight. they might be a refugee or fleeing domestic abuse. in this two-tiered system, the most vulnerable people are forced to work illegally, so they're still exposed to all the dangers of criminalization i mentioned earlier.so. it's looking like all attempts to control or prevent sex work from happening makes things more dangerous for people selling sex. fear of law enforcement makes them work alone in isolated locations, and allows clients and even cops to get abusive in the knowledge they'll get away with it. fines and criminal records force people to keep selling sex, rather than enabling them to stop. crackdowns on buyers drive sellers to take dangerous risks and into the arms of potentially abusive managers.these laws also reinforce stigma and hatred against sex workers. when france temporarily brought in the swedish model two years ago, ordinary citizens took it as a cue to start carrying out vigilante attacks against people working on the street. in sweden, opinion surveys show that significantly more people want sex workers to be arrested now than before the law was brought in. if prohibition is this harmful, you might ask, why it so popular?firstly, sex work is and always has been a survival strategy for all kinds of unpopular minority groups: people of color, migrants, people with disabilities, lgbtq people, particularly trans women. these are the groups most heavily profiled and punished through prohibitionist law. i don't think this is an accident. these laws have political support precisely because they target people that voters don't want to see or know about.why else might people support prohibition? well, lots of people have understandable fears about trafficking. folks think that foreign women kidnapped and sold into sexual slavery can be saved by shutting a whole industry down. so let's talk about trafficking. forced labor does occur in many industries, especially those where the workers are migrants or otherwise vulnerable, and this needs to be addressed. but it's best addressed with legislation targeting those specific abuses, not an entire industry. when 23 undocumented chinese migrants drowned while picking cockles in morecambe bay in 2004, there were no calls to outlaw the entire seafood industry to save trafficking victims. the solution is clearly to give workers more legal protections, allowing them to resist abuse and report it to authorities without fear of arrest.the way the term trafficking is thrown around implies that all undocumented migration into prostitution is forced. in fact, many migrants have made a decision, out of economic need, to place themselves into the hands of people smugglers. many do this with the full knowledge that they'll be selling sex when they reach their destination. and yes, it can often be the case that these people smugglers demand exorbitant fees, coerce migrants into work they don't want to do and abuse them when they're vulnerable. that's true of prostitution, but it's also true of agricultural work, hospitality work and domestic work. ultimately, nobody wants to be forced to do any kind of work, but that's a risk many migrants are willing to take, because of what they're leaving behind. if people were allowed to migrate legally they wouldn't have to place their lives into the hands of people smugglers. the problems arise from the criminalization of migration, just as they do from the criminalization of sex work itself.this is a lesson of history. if you try to prohibit something that people want or need to do, whether that's drinking alcohol or crossing borders or getting an abortion or selling sex, you create more problems than you solve. prohibition barely makes a difference to the amount of people actually doing those things. but it makes a huge difference as to whether or not they're safe when they do them.why else might people support prohibition? as a feminist, i know that the sex industry is a site of deeply entrenched social inequality. it's a fact that most buyers of sex are men with money, and most sellers are women without. you can agree with all that — i do — and still think prohibition is a terrible policy. in a better, more equal world, maybe there would be far fewer people selling sex to survive, but you can't simply legislate a better world into existence. if someone needs to sell sex because they're poor or because they're homeless or because they're undocumented and they can't find legal work, taking away that option doesn't make them any less poor or house them or change their immigration status.people worry that selling sex is degrading. ask yourself: is it more degrading than going hungry or seeing your children go hungry? there's no call to ban rich people from hiring nannies or getting manicures, even though most of the people doing that labor are poor, migrant women. it's the fact of poor migrant women selling sex specifically that has some feminists uncomfortable. and i can understand why the sex industry provokes strong feelings. people have all kinds of complicated feelings when it comes to sex. but we can't make policy on the basis of mere feelings, especially not over the heads of the people actually effected by those policies. if we get fixated on the abolition of sex work, we end up worrying more about a particular manifestation of gender inequality, rather than about the underlying causes.people get really hung up on the question, "well, would you want your daughter doing it?" that's the wrong question. instead, imagine she is doing it. how safe is she at work tonight? why isn't she safer?so we've looked at full criminalization, partial criminalization, the swedish or nordic model and legalization, and how they all cause harm. something i never hear asked is: "what do sex workers want?" after all, we're the ones most affected by these laws.new zealand decriminalized sex work in 2003. it's crucial to remember that decriminalization and legalization are not the same thing. decriminalization means the removal of laws that punitively target the sex industry, instead treating sex work much like any other kind of work. in new zealand, people can work together for safety, and employers of sex workers are accountable to the state. a sex worker can refuse to see a client at any time, for any reason, and 96 percent of street workers report that they feel the law protects their rights. new zealand hasn't actually seen an increase in the amount of people doing sex work, but decriminalizing it has made it a lot safer. but the lesson from new zealand isn't just that its particular legislation is good, but that crucially, it was written in collaboration with sex workers; namely, the new zealand prostitutes' collective. when it came to making sex work safer, they were ready to hear it straight from sex workers themselves.here in the uk, i'm part of sex worker-led groups like the sex worker open university and the english collective of prostitutes. and we form part of a global movement demanding decriminalization and self-determination. the universal symbol of our movement is the red umbrella. we're supported in our demands by global bodies like unaids, the world health organization and amnesty international. but we need more allies. if you care about gender equality or poverty or migration or public health, then sex worker rights matter to you. make space for us in your movements. that means not only listening to sex workers when we speak but amplifying our voices. resist those who silence us, those who say that a prostitute is either too victimized, too damaged to know what's best for herself, or else too privileged and too removed from real hardship, not representative of the millions of voiceless victims. this distinction between victim and empowered is imaginary. it exists purely to discredit sex workers and make it easy to ignore us.no doubt many of you work for a living. well, sex work is work, too. just like you, some of us like our jobs, some of us hate them. ultimately, most of us have mixed feelings. but how we feel about our work isn't the point. and how others feel about our work certainly isn't. what's important is that we have the right to work safely and on our own terms.sex workers are real people. we've had complicated experiences and complicated responses to those experiences. but our demands are not complicated. you can ask expensive escorts in new york city, brothel workers in cambodia, street workers in south africa and every girl on the roster at my old job in soho, and they will all tell you the same thing. you can speak to millions of sex workers and countless sex work-led organizations. we want full decriminalization and labor rights as workers.i'm just one sex worker on the stage today, but i'm bringing a message from all over the world.thank you. <title = "How free is our freedom of the press?">
<tags = "['Internet', 'Surveillance', 'TED Fellows', 'corruption', 'crime', 'government']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist and legal analyst﻿">
so this is james risen. you may know him as the pulitzer prize-winning reporter for the new york times. long before anybody knew edward snowden's name, risen wrote a book in which he famously exposed that the nsa was illegally wiretapping the phone calls of americans. but it's another chapter in that book that may have an even more lasting impact. in it, he describes a catastrophic us intelligence operation in which the cia quite literally handed over blueprints of a nuclear bomb to iran. if that sounds crazy, go read it. it's an incredible story.but you know who didn't like that chapter? the us government. for nearly a decade afterwards, risen was the subject of a us government investigation in which prosecutors demanded that he testify against one of his alleged sources. and along the way, he became the face for the us government's recent pattern of prosecuting whistleblowers and spying on journalists.you see, under the first amendment, the press has the right to publish secret information in the public interest. but it's impossible to exercise that right if the media can't also gather that news and protect the identities of the brave men and women who get it to them. so when the government came knocking, risen did what many brave reporters have done before him: he refused and said he'd rather go to jail. so from 2007 to 2015, risen lived under the specter of going to federal prison.that is, until just days before the trial, when a curious thing happened. suddenly, after years of claiming it was vital to their case, the government dropped their demands to risen altogether. it turns out, in the age of electronic surveillance, there are very few places reporters and sources can hide. and instead of trying and failing to have risen testify, they could have his digital trail testify against him instead. so completely in secret and without his consent, prosecutors got risen's phone records. they got his email records, his financial and banking information, his credit reports, even travel records with a list of flights he had taken. and it was among this information that they used to convict jeffrey sterling, risen's alleged source and cia whistleblower.sadly, this is only one case of many. president obama ran on a promise to protect whistleblowers, and instead, his justice department has prosecuted more than all other administrations combined. now, you can see how this could be a problem, especially because the government considers so much of what it does secret. since 9/11, virtually every important story about national security has been the result of a whistleblower coming to a journalist. so we risk seeing the press unable to do their job that the first amendment is supposed to protect because of the government's expanded ability to spy on everyone.but just as technology has allowed the government to circumvent reporters' rights, the press can also use technology to protect their sources even better than before. and they can start from the moment they begin speaking with them, rather than on the witness stand after the fact. communications software now exists that wasn't available when risen was writing his book, and is much more surveillance-resistant than regular emails or phone calls. for example, one such tool is securedrop, an open-source whistleblower submission system that was originally created by the late internet luminary aaron swartz, and is now developed at the non-profit where i work, freedom of the press foundation. instead of sending an email, you go to a news organization's website, like this one here on the washington post. from there, you can upload a document or send information much like you would on any other contact form. it'll then be encrypted and stored on a server that only the news organization has access to. so the government can no longer secretly demand the information, and much of the information they would demand wouldn't be available in the first place.securedrop, though, is really only a small part of the puzzle for protecting press freedom in the 21st century. unfortunately, governments all over the world are constantly developing new spying techniques that put us all at risk. and it's up to us going forward to make sure that it's not just the tech-savvy whistleblowers, like edward snowden, who have an avenue for exposing wrongdoing. it's just as vital that we protect the next veteran's health care whistleblower alerting us to overcrowded hospitals, or the next environmental worker sounding the alarm about flint's dirty water, or a wall street insider warning us of the next financial crisis. after all, these tools weren't just built to help the brave men and women who expose crimes, but are meant to protect all of our rights under the constitution.thank you. <title = "The beauty of being a misfit">
<tags = "['TED Books', 'beauty', 'books', 'creativity', 'failure', 'humanity', 'identity', 'personal growth', 'self', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Author">
so i know ted is about a lot of things that are big, but i want to talk to you about something very small. so small, it's a single word. the word is "misfit." it's one of my favorite words, because it's so literal. i mean, it's a person who sort of missed fitting in. or a person who fits in badly. or this: "a person who is poorly adapted to new situations and environments." i'm a card-carrying misfit. and i'm here for the other misfits in the room, because i'm never the only one. i'm going to tell you a misfit story.somewhere in my early 30s, the dream of becoming a writer came right to my doorstep. actually, it came to my mailbox in the form of a letter that said i'd won a giant literary prize for a short story i had written. the short story was about my life as a competitive swimmer and about my crappy home life, and a little bit about how grief and loss can make you insane. the prize was a trip to new york city to meet big-time editors and agents and other authors. so kind of it was the wannabe writer's dream, right? you know what i did the day the letter came to my house? because i'm me, i put the letter on my kitchen table, i poured myself a giant glass of vodka with ice and lime, and i sat there in my underwear for an entire day, just staring at the letter. i was thinking about all the ways i'd already screwed my life up. who the hell was i to go to new york city and pretend to be a writer? who was i?i'll tell you. i was a misfit. like legions of other children, i came from an abusive household that i narrowly escaped with my life. i already had two epically failed marriages underneath my belt. i'd flunked out of college not once but twice and maybe even a third time that i'm not going to tell you about. and i'd done an episode of rehab for drug use. and i'd had two lovely staycations in jail. so i'm on the right stage. but the real reason, i think, i was a misfit, is that my daughter died the day she was born, and i hadn't figured out how to live with that story yet. after my daughter died i also spent a long time homeless, living under an overpass in a kind of profound state of zombie grief and loss that some of us encounter along the way. maybe all of us, if you live long enough. you know, homeless people are some of our most heroic misfits, because they start out as us. so you see, i'd missed fitting in to just about every category out there: daughter, wife, mother, scholar. and the dream of being a writer was really kind of like a small, sad stone in my throat.it was pretty much in spite of myself that i got on that plane and flew to new york city, where the writers are. fellow misfits, i can almost see your heads glowing. i can pick you out of a room. at first, you would've loved it. you got to choose the three famous writers you wanted to meet, and these guys went and found them for you. you got set up at the gramercy park hotel, where you got to drink scotch late in the night with cool, smart, swank people. and you got to pretend you were cool and smart and swank, too. and you got to meet a bunch of editors and authors and agents at very, very fancy lunches and dinners. ask me how fancy.audience: how fancy?lidia yuknavitch: i'm making a confession: i stole three linen napkins — from three different restaurants. and i shoved a menu down my pants. i just wanted some keepsakes so that when i got home, i could believe it had really happened to me. you know?the three writers i wanted to meet were carole maso, lynne tillman and peggy phelan. these were not famous, best-selling authors, but to me, they were women-writer titans. carole maso wrote the book that later became my art bible. lynne tillman gave me permission to believe that there was a chance my stories could be part of the world. and peggy phelan reminded me that maybe my brains could be more important than my boobs. they weren't mainstream women writers, but they were cutting a path through the mainstream with their body stories, i like to think, kind of the way water cut the grand canyon.it nearly killed me with joy to hang out with these three over-50-year-old women writers. and the reason it nearly killed me with joy is that i'd never known a joy like that. i'd never been in a room like that. my mother never went to college. and my creative career to that point was a sort of small, sad, stillborn thing. so kind of in those first nights in new york i wanted to die there. i was just like, "kill me now. i'm good. this is beautiful." some of you in the room will understand what happened next.first, they took me to the offices of farrar, straus and giroux. farrar, straus and giroux was like my mega-dream press. i mean, t.s. eliot and flannery o'connor were published there. the main editor guy sat me down and talked to me for a long time, trying to convince me i had a book in me about my life as a swimmer. you know, like a memoir. the whole time he was talking to me, i sat there smiling and nodding like a numb idiot, with my arms crossed over my chest, while nothing, nothing, nothing came out of my throat. so in the end, he patted me on the shoulder like a swim coach might. and he wished me luck and he gave me some free books and he showed me out the door.next, they took me to the offices of w.w. norton, where i was pretty sure i'd be escorted from the building just for wearing doc martens. but that didn't happen. being at the norton offices felt like reaching up into the night sky and touching the moon while the stars stitched your name across the cosmos. i mean, that's how big a deal it was to me. you get it? their lead editor, carol houck smith, leaned over right in my face with these beady, bright, fierce eyes and said, "well, send me something then, immediately!" see, now most people, especially ted people, would have run to the mailbox, right? it took me over a decade to even imagine putting something in an envelope and licking a stamp.on the last night, i gave a big reading at the national poetry club. and at the end of the reading, katharine kidde of kidde, hoyt & picard literary agency, walked straight up to me and shook my hand and offered me representation, like, on the spot. i stood there and i kind of went deaf. has this ever happened to you? and i almost started crying because all the people in the room were dressed so beautifully, and all that came out of my mouth was: "i don't know. i have to think about it." and she said, "ok, then," and walked away. all those open hands out to me, that small, sad stone in my throat ...you see, i'm trying to tell you something about people like me. misfit people — we don't always know how to hope or say yes or choose the big thing, even when it's right in front of us. it's a shame we carry. it's the shame of wanting something good. it's the shame of feeling something good. it's the shame of not really believing we deserve to be in the room with the people we admire.if i could, i'd go back and i'd coach myself. i'd be exactly like those over-50-year-old women who helped me. i'd teach myself how to want things, how to stand up, how to ask for them. i'd say, "you! yeah, you! you belong in the room, too." the radiance falls on all of us, and we are nothing without each other. instead, i flew back to oregon, and as i watched the evergreens and rain come back into view, i just drank many tiny bottles of airplane "feel sorry for yourself." i thought about how, if i was a writer, i was some kind of misfit writer. what i'm saying is, i flew back to oregon without a book deal, without an agent, and with only a headful and heart-ful of memories of having sat so near the beautiful writers. memory was the only prize i allowed myself.and yet, at home in the dark, back in my underwear, i could still hear their voices. they said, "don't listen to anyone who tries to get you to shut up or change your story." they said, "give voice to the story only you know how to tell." they said, "sometimes telling the story is the thing that saves your life."now i am, as you can see, the woman over 50. and i'm a writer. and i'm a mother. and i became a teacher. guess who my favorite students are. although it didn't happen the day that dream letter came through my mailbox, i did write a memoir, called "the chronology of water." in it are the stories of how many times i've had to reinvent a self from the ruins of my choices, the stories of how my seeming failures were really just weird-ass portals to something beautiful. all i had to do was give voice to the story.there's a myth in most cultures about following your dreams. it's called the hero's journey. but i prefer a different myth, that's slightly to the side of that or underneath it. it's called the misfit's myth. and it goes like this: even at the moment of your failure, right then, you are beautiful. you don't know it yet, but you have the ability to reinvent yourself endlessly. that's your beauty.you can be a drunk, you can be a survivor of abuse, you can be an ex-con, you can be a homeless person, you can lose all your money or your job or your husband or your wife, or the worst thing of all, a child. you can even lose your marbles. you can be standing dead center in the middle of your failure and still, i'm only here to tell you, you are so beautiful. your story deserves to be heard, because you, you rare and phenomenal misfit, you new species, are the only one in the room who can tell the story the way only you would. and i'd be listening.thank you. <title = "Your words may predict your future mental health">
<tags = "['brain', 'cognitive science', 'communication', 'future', 'health', 'identity', 'language', 'mental health', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'science', 'self', 'speech', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist">
we have historical records that allow us to know how the ancient greeks dressed, how they lived, how they fought ... but how did they think?one natural idea is that the deepest aspects of human thought — our ability to imagine, to be conscious, to dream — have always been the same. another possibility is that the social transformations that have shaped our culture may have also changed the structural columns of human thought.we may all have different opinions about this. actually, it's a long-standing philosophical debate. but is this question even amenable to science?here i'd like to propose that in the same way we can reconstruct how the ancient greek cities looked just based on a few bricks, that the writings of a culture are the archaeological records, the fossils, of human thought.and in fact, doing some form of psychological analysis of some of the most ancient books of human culture, julian jaynes came up in the '70s with a very wild and radical hypothesis: that only 3,000 years ago, humans were what today we would call schizophrenics. and he made this claim based on the fact that the first humans described in these books behaved consistently, in different traditions and in different places of the world, as if they were hearing and obeying voices that they perceived as coming from the gods, or from the muses ... what today we would call hallucinations. and only then, as time went on, they began to recognize that they were the creators, the owners of these inner voices. and with this, they gained introspection: the ability to think about their own thoughts.so jaynes's theory is that consciousness, at least in the way we perceive it today, where we feel that we are the pilots of our own existence — is a quite recent cultural development. and this theory is quite spectacular, but it has an obvious problem which is that it's built on just a few and very specific examples. so the question is whether the theory that introspection built up in human history only about 3,000 years ago can be examined in a quantitative and objective manner.and the problem of how to go about this is quite obvious. it's not like plato woke up one day and then he wrote, "hello, i'm plato, and as of today, i have a fully introspective consciousness." and this tells us actually what is the essence of the problem. we need to find the emergence of a concept that's never said. the word introspection does not appear a single time in the books we want to analyze.so our way to solve this is to build the space of words. this is a huge space that contains all words in such a way that the distance between any two of them is indicative of how closely related they are. so for instance, you want the words "dog" and "cat" to be very close together, but the words "grapefruit" and "logarithm" to be very far away. and this has to be true for any two words within the space.and there are different ways that we can construct the space of words. one is just asking the experts, a bit like we do with dictionaries. another possibility is following the simple assumption that when two words are related, they tend to appear in the same sentences, in the same paragraphs, in the same documents, more often than would be expected just by pure chance. and this simple hypothesis, this simple method, with some computational tricks that have to do with the fact that this is a very complex and high-dimensional space, turns out to be quite effective.and just to give you a flavor of how well this works, this is the result we get when we analyze this for some familiar words. and you can see first that words automatically organize into semantic neighborhoods. so you get the fruits, the body parts, the computer parts, the scientific terms and so on.the algorithm also identifies that we organize concepts in a hierarchy. so for instance, you can see that the scientific terms break down into two subcategories of the astronomic and the physics terms. and then there are very fine things. for instance, the word astronomy, which seems a bit bizarre where it is, is actually exactly where it should be, between what it is, an actual science, and between what it describes, the astronomical terms.and we could go on and on with this. actually, if you stare at this for a while, and you just build random trajectories, you will see that it actually feels a bit like doing poetry. and this is because, in a way, walking in this space is like walking in the mind.and the last thing is that this algorithm also identifies what are our intuitions, of which words should lead in the neighborhood of introspection. so for instance, words such as "self," "guilt," "reason," "emotion," are very close to "introspection," but other words, such as "red," "football," "candle," "banana," are just very far away.and so once we've built the space, the question of the history of introspection, or of the history of any concept which before could seem abstract and somehow vague, becomes concrete — becomes amenable to quantitative science.all that we have to do is take the books, we digitize them, and we take this stream of words as a trajectory and project them into the space, and then we ask whether this trajectory spends significant time circling closely to the concept of introspection.and with this, we could analyze the history of introspection in the ancient greek tradition, for which we have the best available written record. so what we did is we took all the books — we just ordered them by time — for each book we take the words and we project them to the space, and then we ask for each word how close it is to introspection, and we just average that. and then we ask whether, as time goes on and on, these books get closer, and closer and closer to the concept of introspection.and this is exactly what happens in the ancient greek tradition. so you can see that for the oldest books in the homeric tradition, there is a small increase with books getting closer to introspection. but about four centuries before christ, this starts ramping up very rapidly to an almost five-fold increase of books getting closer, and closer and closer to the concept of introspection. and one of the nice things about this is that now we can ask whether this is also true in a different, independent tradition.so we just ran this same analysis on the judeo-christian tradition, and we got virtually the same pattern. again, you see a small increase for the oldest books in the old testament, and then it increases much more rapidly in the new books of the new testament. and then we get the peak of introspection in "the confessions of saint augustine," about four centuries after christ. and this was very important, because saint augustine had been recognized by scholars, philologists, historians, as one of the founders of introspection. actually, some believe him to be the father of modern psychology.so our algorithm, which has the virtue of being quantitative, of being objective, and of course of being extremely fast — it just runs in a fraction of a second — can capture some of the most important conclusions of this long tradition of investigation. and this is in a way one of the beauties of science, which is that now this idea can be translated and generalized to a whole lot of different domains.so in the same way that we asked about the past of human consciousness, maybe the most challenging question we can pose to ourselves is whether this can tell us something about the future of our own consciousness. to put it more precisely, whether the words we say today can tell us something of where our minds will be in a few days, in a few months or a few years from now.and in the same way many of us are now wearing sensors that detect our heart rate, our respiration, our genes, on the hopes that this may help us prevent diseases, we can ask whether monitoring and analyzing the words we speak, we tweet, we email, we write, can tell us ahead of time whether something may go wrong with our minds. and with guillermo cecchi, who has been my brother in this adventure, we took on this task. and we did so by analyzing the recorded speech of 34 young people who were at a high risk of developing schizophrenia.and so what we did is, we measured speech at day one, and then we asked whether the properties of the speech could predict, within a window of almost three years, the future development of psychosis. but despite our hopes, we got failure after failure. there was just not enough information in semantics to predict the future organization of the mind. it was good enough to distinguish between a group of schizophrenics and a control group, a bit like we had done for the ancient texts, but not to predict the future onset of psychosis.but then we realized that maybe the most important thing was not so much what they were saying, but how they were saying it. more specifically, it was not in which semantic neighborhoods the words were, but how far and fast they jumped from one semantic neighborhood to the other one. and so we came up with this measure, which we termed semantic coherence, which essentially measures the persistence of speech within one semantic topic, within one semantic category.and it turned out to be that for this group of 34 people, the algorithm based on semantic coherence could predict, with 100 percent accuracy, who developed psychosis and who will not. and this was something that could not be achieved — not even close — with all the other existing clinical measures.and i remember vividly, while i was working on this, i was sitting at my computer and i saw a bunch of tweets by polo — polo had been my first student back in buenos aires, and at the time he was living in new york. and there was something in this tweets — i could not tell exactly what because nothing was said explicitly — but i got this strong hunch, this strong intuition, that something was going wrong. so i picked up the phone, and i called polo, and in fact he was not feeling well. and this simple fact, that reading in between the lines, i could sense, through words, his feelings, was a simple, but very effective way to help.what i tell you today is that we're getting close to understanding how we can convert this intuition that we all have, that we all share, into an algorithm. and in doing so, we may be seeing in the future a very different form of mental health, based on objective, quantitative and automated analysis of the words we write, of the words we say.gracias. <title = "Drawings that show the beauty and fragility of Earth">
<tags = "['adventure', 'art', 'beauty', 'big problems', 'climate change', 'exploration', 'glacier', 'meditation', 'nature', 'oceans', 'sustainability', 'visualizations', 'water']">
<occupation = "Artist">
i consider it my life's mission to convey the urgency of climate change through my work. i've traveled north to the arctic to the capture the unfolding story of polar melt, and south to the equator to document the subsequent rising seas. most recently, i visited the icy coast of greenland and the low-lying islands of the maldives, connecting two seemingly disparate but equally endangered parts of our planet.my drawings explore moments of transition, turbulence and tranquility in the landscape, allowing viewers to emotionally connect with a place you might never have the chance to visit. i choose to convey the beauty as opposed to the devastation. if you can experience the sublimity of these landscapes, perhaps you'll be inspired to protect and preserve them.behavioral psychology tells us that we take action and make decisions based on our emotions above all else. and studies have shown that art impacts our emotions more effectively than a scary news report. experts predict ice-free arctic summers as early as 2020. and sea levels are likely to rise between two and ten feet by century's end. i have dedicated my career to illuminating these projections with an accessible medium, one that moves us in a way that statistics may not.my process begins with traveling to the places at the forefront of climate change. on-site, i take thousands of photographs. back in the studio, i work from both my memory of the experience and the photographs to create very large-scale compositions, sometimes over 10 feet wide.i draw with soft pastel, which is dry like charcoal, but colors. i consider my work drawings but others call them painting. i cringe, though, when i'm referred to as a "finger painter." but i don't use any tools and i have always used my fingers and palms to manipulate the pigment on the paper. drawing is a form of meditation for me. it quiets my mind. i don't perceive what i'm drawing as ice or water. instead, the image is stripped down to its most basic form of color and shape. once the piece is complete, i can finally experience the composition as a whole, as an iceberg floating through glassy water, or a wave cresting with foam. on average, a piece this size takes me about, as you can see, 10 seconds. really, more like 200 hours, 250 hours for something that size. but i've been drawing ever since i could hold a crayon, really. my mom was an artist, and growing up, we always had art supplies all over the house. my mother's love of photography propelled her to the most remote regions of the earth, and my family and i were fortunate enough to join and support her on these adventures. we rode camels in northern africa and mushed on dog sleds near the north pole.in august of 2012, i led my first expedition, taking a group of artists and scholars up the northwest coast of greenland. my mother was originally supposed to lead this trip. she and i were in the early stages of planning, as we had intended to go together, when she fell victim to a brain tumor. the cancer quickly took over her body and mind, and she passed away six months later. during the months of her illness, though, her dedication to the expedition never wavered, and i made a promise to carry out her final journey.my mother's passion for the arctic echoed through my experience in greenland, and i felt the power and the fragility of the landscape. the sheer size of the icebergs is humbling. the ice fields are alive with movement and sound in a way that i never expected. i expanded the scale of my compositions to give you that same sense of awe that i experienced. yet, while the grandeur of the ice is evident, so, too, is its vulnerability. from our boat, i could see the ice sweating under the unseasonably warm sun.we had a chance to visit many of the inuit communities in greenland that now face huge challenges. the locals spoke to me of vast areas of sea ice that are no longer freezing over as they once did. and without ice, their hunting and harvesting grounds are severely diminished, threatening their way of life and survival.the melting glaciers in greenland are one of the largest contributing factors to rising sea levels, which have already begun to drown some of our world's lowest-lying islands. one year after my trip to greenland, i visited the maldives, the lowest and flattest country in the entire world. while i was there, i collected images and inspiration for a new body of work: drawings of waves lapping on the coast of a nation that could be entirely underwater within this century.devastating events happen every day on scales both global and personal. when i was in greenland, i scattered my mother's ashes amidst the melting ice. now she remains a part of the landscape she loved so much, even as it, too, passes and takes on new form.among the many gifts my mother gave me was the ability to focus on the positive, rather than the negative. my drawings celebrate the beauty of what we all stand to lose. i hope they can serve as records of sublime landscapes in flux, documenting the transition and inspiring our global community to take action for the future.thank you. <title = "How barbershops can keep men healthy">
<tags = "['activism', 'community', 'health', 'health care', 'heart health', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'men', 'potential', 'public health', 'race', 'trust']">
<occupation = "Physician and men’s health advocate">
what do you see? most of you see a barbershop, but i see an opportunity: an opportunity for health, an opportunity for health equity.for black men, the barbershop is not just a place where you get your hair cut or your beard trimmed. no, it's much more than that. historically, the barbershop has been a safe haven for black men. it's a place where we go for friendship, solidarity and solace. it's a place where we go to get away from the stress of the grind of work and sometimes home life. it's a place where we don't have to worry about how we're being perceived by the outside world. it's a place where we don't feel threatened, or threatening. it's a place of loyalty and trust. for that reason, it's one of the few places where we can fearlessly be ourselves and just ... talk. the talk, the shop talk, the conversation, that is the essence of the black barbershop.i can remember going to the barbershop with my dad as a kid. we went to mr. mike's barbershop every other saturday. and like clockwork, the same group of men would be there every time we went, either waiting on their favorite barber or just soaking up the atmosphere.i can remember the jovial greeting that warmly welcomed us every time we went."hey rev," they would say to my dad. he's a local pastor, and they treated him like a celebrity."hey young fella, how you doing?" they would say to me, making me feel just as special.i remember the range of the conversations was immense. the men would talk about politics and sports and music and world news, national news, neighborhood news. there was some talk about women and what it was like to be a black man in america. but many times they also talked about health. the conversations about health were lengthy and deep. the men often recounted their doctor's recommendations to cut salt in their diet or to eat less fried foods or to stop smoking or to reduce stress. they talked about the different ways you could reduce stress, like simplifying one's love life — all ways to treat high blood pressure.there's a lot of talk about high blood pressure in the barbershop. that's because almost 40 percent of black men have it. that means that almost every single black man either has high blood pressure or knows a black man who has it.sometimes, those conversations in the barbershop would be about what happens when high blood pressure is not adequately addressed."say, did you hear about jimmy? he had a stroke.""did you hear about eddie? he died last week. massive heart attack. he was 50."more black men die from high blood pressure than from anything else, even though decades of medical wisdom and science have demonstrated that death from high blood pressure can be prevented with timely diagnosis and appropriate treatment.so why is high blood pressure so differentially deadly for black men? because too often, high blood pressure is either untreated or under-treated in black men, in part because of our lower engagement with the primary healthcare system. black men, in particular those with high blood pressure, are less likely to have a primary care doctor than other groups.but why? some of our earliest research on black men's health revealed that for many, the doctor's office is associated with fear, mistrust, disrespect, and unnecessary unpleasantness. the doctor's office is only a place that you go when you don't feel well. and when you do go, you might wait for hours only to get the run-around and to be evaluated by a stoic figure in a white coat who only has 10 minutes to give you and who doesn't value the talk. so it's no wonder that some men don't want to be bothered and skip going to the doctor altogether, especially if they feel fine.but herein lies the problem. you can feel just fine while high blood pressure ravages your most vital organs.this is denny moe, owner of denny moe's superstar barbershop in harlem. i've been lucky enough to have denny as my barber for the last eight years.he said to me once, "hey doc, you know, lots of black men trust their barbers more than they trust their doctors."this was stunning to me, at first, but not so much when you think about it. black men have been with their current barbers on average as long as i've been with denny, about eight years. and black men see their barbers about every two weeks. not only do you trust your barber with your look and with your style, but you also trust him with your secrets and sometimes your life. denny, like many barbers, is more than just an artist, a businessman and confidant. he's a leader and a passionate advocate for the well-being of his community. the very first time i walked into denny moe's shop, he wasn't just cutting hair. he was also orchestrating a voter registration drive to give a voice to his customers and his community.with this kind of activism, and community investment that typifies the black barbershop, of course the barbershop is a perfect place to talk about high blood pressure and other health concerns in the community.first, the barbershop is not a medical setting, and so it doesn't have all the negative psychological baggage that comes along with that. when you're in a barbershop, you're in your territory, and you're among friends who share your history, your struggle and your health risks.second, because the barbershop is a place of connection, loyalty and trust, it's a place where you're more open to have a conversation about health and especially about high blood pressure. after all, conversations about high blood pressure have all the elements of great shop talk: stress and high blood pressure, food and high blood pressure, relationships and high blood pressure, and yes, what it's like to be a black man in america and high blood pressure.but you can do more than just talk about high blood pressure in the barbershop. you can concretely take action. here we have an opportunity to partner with the denny moe's of the world and empower communities to address the health inequities that uniquely affect it. when high blood pressure screening expanded from clinics and hospitals to communities in the 1960s and '70s, black physicians like dr. eli saunders in baltimore and dr. keith ferdinand in new orleans were at the forefront of bringing health promotion to community hubs in urban black neighborhoods.these pioneers paved the way for my professional journey with barbershops and health, which began in chicago in medical school.the very first research project that i worked on as a medical student was to help design healthcare interventions that would appeal to black men. we conducted about a dozen focus groups with a broad cross-section of black men, and we learned that for them, being healthy was as much about being perceived as healthy as it was about feeling healthy, and that feeling good went hand in hand with looking good. this work led to the development of project brotherhood, a community clinic founded by dr. eric whitaker that provided tailored healthcare to black men. part of this tailored care involved having a barber on the premises to reward the men who came for needed healthcare with a free haircut, to let the men know that we, too, valued how they looked as well as how they felt, and that what was important to them was also important to us.but while there's only one project brotherhood, there are thousands of black barbershops where the intersection of health and haircuts can be cultivated. the next stop on my journey was dallas, texas, where we learned that barbers were not only willing but fully able to roll up their sleeves and participate in delivering needed health services to improve the health of their customers and their community. we teamed up with an amazing cadre of black barbers and taught them how to measure blood pressure and how to counsel their customers and refer them to doctors to help manage high blood pressure. the barbers were not only willing to do it but they were damn good at it. over a three-year period, the barbers measured thousands of blood pressures resulting in hundreds of black men being referred to doctors for medical care of their high blood pressure. these barber-doctor partnerships resulted in a 20 percent increase in the number of men who were able to achieve target blood pressure levels and a three-point drop, on average, in the blood pressure of each participant. if we were to extrapolate that three point drop to every single black man with high blood pressure in america, we would prevent 800 heart attacks, 500 strokes and 900 deaths from high blood pressure in just one year.and our experience with barbershops has been no different in new york city, where my journey has currently led me. with an incredible team of diverse research assistants, community health workers and volunteers, we've been able to partner with over 200 barbershops and other trusted community venues to reach over 7,000 older black men. and we've offered high blood pressure screening and counseling to each and every one of them. thanks to denny moe and the myriad other barbers and community leaders who shared the vision of opportunity and empowerment to make a difference in their communities, we've been able to not only lower blood pressure in our participants, but we've also been able to impact other health indicators.so what do you see? what is your barbershop? where is that place for you where people who are affected by a unique problem can meet a unique solution? when you find that place, see the opportunity.thank you. <title = "My journey from Marine to actor">
<tags = "['collaboration', 'communication', 'entertainment', 'film', 'language', 'military', 'performance', 'performance art', 'theater', 'war']">
<occupation = "Actor and Marine Corps veteran">
i was a marine with 1/1 weapons company, 81's platoon, out in camp pendleton, california. oorah!audience: oorah! i joined a few months after september 11, feeling like i think most people in the country did at the time, filled with a sense of patriotism and retribution and the desire to do something — that, coupled with that fact that i wasn't doing anything. i was 17, just graduated from high school that past summer, living in the back room of my parents' house paying rent, in the small town i was raised in in northern indiana, called mishawaka. i can spell that later for people who are interested — mishawaka is many good things but cultural hub of the world it is not, so my only exposure to theater and film was limited to the plays i did in high school and blockbuster video, may she rest in peace. i was serious enough about acting that i auditioned for juilliard when i was a senior in high school, didn't get in, determined college wasn't for me and applied nowhere else, which was a genius move. i also did that hail mary la acting odyssey that i always heard stories about, of actors moving to la with, like, seven dollars and finding work and successful careers. i got as far as amarillo, texas, before my car broke down. i spent all my money repairing it, finally made it to santa monica — not even la — stayed for 48 hours wandering the beach, basically, got in my car, drove home, thus ending my acting career, so — seventeen, mishawaka ... parents' house, paying rent, selling vacuums ... telemarketing, cutting grass at the local 4-h fairgrounds. this was my world going into september, 2001.so after the 11th, and feeling an overwhelming sense of duty, and just being pissed off in general — at myself, my parents, the government; not having confidence, not having a respectable job, my shitty mini-fridge that i just drove to california and back — i joined the marine corps and loved it. i loved being a marine. it's one of the things i'm most proud of having done in my life. firing weapons was cool, driving and detonating expensive things was great. but i found i loved the marine corps the most for the thing i was looking for the least when i joined, which was the people: these weird dudes — a motley crew of characters from a cross section of the united states — that on the surface i had nothing in common with. and over time, all the political and personal bravado that led me to the military dissolved, and for me, the marine corps became synonymous with my friends.and then, a few years into my service and months away from deploying to iraq, i dislocated my sternum in a mountain-biking accident, and had to be medically separated. those never in the military may find this hard to understand, but being told i wasn't getting deployed to iraq or afghanistan was very devastating for me. i have a very clear image of leaving the base hospital on a stretcher and my entire platoon is waiting outside to see if i was ok.and then, suddenly, i was a civilian again. i knew i wanted to give acting another shot, because — again, this is me — i thought all civilian problems are small compared to the military. i mean, what can you really bitch about now, you know? "it's hot. someone should turn on the air conditioner." "this coffee line is too long." i was a marine, i knew how to survive. i'd go to new york and become an actor. if things didn't work out, i'd live in central park and dumpster-dive behind panera bread. i re-auditioned for juilliard and this time i was lucky, i got in. but i was surprised by how complex the transition was from military to civilian. and i was relatively healthy; i can't imagine going through that process on top of a mental or physical injury. but regardless, it was difficult. in part, because i was in acting school — i couldn't justify going to voice and speech class, throwing imaginary balls of energy at the back of the room, doing acting exercises where i gave birth to myself — while my friends were serving without me overseas. but also, because i didn't know how to apply the things i learned in the military to a civilian context. i mean that both practically and emotionally. practically, i had to get a job. and i was an infantry marine, where you're shooting machine guns and firing mortars. there's not a lot of places you can put those skills in the civilian world. emotionally, i struggled to find meaning. in the military, everything has meaning. everything you do is either steeped in tradition or has a practical purpose. you can't smoke in the field because you don't want to give away your position. you don't touch your face — you have to maintain a personal level of health and hygiene. you face this way when "colors" plays, out of respect for people who went before you. walk this way, talk this way because of this. your uniform is maintained to the inch. how diligently you followed those rules spoke volumes about the kind of marine you were. your rank said something about your history and the respect you had earned.in the civilian world there's no rank. here you're just another body, and i felt like i constantly had to prove my worth all over again. and the respect civilians were giving me while i was in uniform didn't exist when i was out of it. there didn't seem to be a ... a sense of community, whereas in the military, i felt this sense of community. how often in the civilian world are you put in a life-or-death situation with your closest friends and they constantly demonstrate that they're not going to abandon you? and meanwhile, at acting school ... i was really, for the first time, discovering playwrights and characters and plays that had nothing to do with the military, but were somehow describing my military experience in a way that before to me was indescribable. and i felt myself becoming less aggressive as i was able to put words to feelings for the first time and realizing what a valuable tool that was.and when i was reflecting on my time in the military, i wasn't first thinking on the stereotypical drills and discipline and pain of it; but rather, the small, intimate human moments, moments of great feeling: friends going awol because they missed their families, friends getting divorced, grieving together, celebrating together, all within the backdrop of the military. i saw my friends battling these circumstances, and i watched the anxiety it produced in them and me, not being able to express our feelings about it.the military and theater communities are actually very similar. you have a group of people trying to accomplish a mission greater than themselves; it's not about you. you have a role, you have to know your role within that team. every team has a leader or director; sometimes they're smart, sometimes they're not. you're forced to be intimate with complete strangers in a short amount of time; the self-discipline, the self-maintenance. i thought, how great would it be to create a space that combined these two seemingly dissimilar communities, that brought entertainment to a group of people that, considering their occupation, could handle something a bit more thought-provoking than the typical mandatory-fun events that i remember being "volun-told" to go to in the military — all well-intended but slightly offensive events, like "win a date with a san diego chargers cheerleader," where you answer a question about pop culture, and if you get it right you win a date, which was a chaperoned walk around the parade deck with this already married, pregnant cheerleader — nothing against cheerleaders, i love cheerleaders. the point is more, how great would it be to have theater presented through characters that were accessible without being condescending. so we started this nonprofit called arts in the armed forces, where we tried to do that, tried to join these two seemingly dissimilar communities. we pick a play or select monologues from contemporary american plays that are diverse in age and race like a military audience is, grab a group of incredible theater-trained actors, arm them with incredible material, keep production value as minimal as possible — no sets, no costumes, no lights, just reading it — to throw all the emphasis on the language and to show that theater can be created at any setting.it's a powerful thing, getting in a room with complete strangers and reminding ourselves of our humanity, and that self-expression is just as valuable a tool as a rifle on your shoulder. and for an organization like the military, that prides itself on having acronyms for acronyms, you can get lost in the sauce when it comes to explaining a collective experience. and i can think of no better community to arm with a new means of self-expression than those protecting our country.we've gone all over the united states and the world, from walter reed in bethesda, maryland, to camp pendleton, to camp arifjan in kuwait, to usag bavaria, on- and off-broadway theaters in new york. and for the performing artists we bring, it's a window into a culture they otherwise would not have had exposure to. and for the military, it's the exact same.and in doing this for the past six years, i'm always reminded that acting is many things. it's a craft, it's a political act, it's a business, it's — whatever adjective is most applicable to you. but it's also a service. i didn't get to finish mine, so whenever i get to be of service to this ultimate service industry, the military, for me, again — there's not many things better than that.thank you. we're going to be doing a piece from marco ramirez, called "i am not batman." an incredible actor and good friend of mine, jesse perez, is going to be reading, and matt johnson, who i just met a couple hours ago. they're doing it together for the first time, so we'll see how it goes.jesse perez and matt johnson. jesse perez: it's the middle of the night and the sky is glowing like mad, radioactive red. and if you squint, you can maybe see the moon through a thick layer of cigarette smoke and airplane exhaust that covers the whole city, like a mosquito net that won't let the angels in.(drum beat)and if you look up high enough, you can see me standing on the edge of an 87-story building. and up there, a place for gargoyles and broken clock towers that have stayed still and dead for maybe like 100 years, up there is me.(beat)and i'm frickin' batman.(beat)and i gots batmobiles and batarangs and frickin' bat caves, like, for real. and all it takes is a broom closet or a back room or a fire escape, and danny's hand-me-down jeans are gone. and my navy blue polo shirt, the one that looks kinda good on me but has that hole on it near the butt from when it got snagged on the chain-link fence behind arturo's but it isn't even a big deal because i tuck that part in and it's, like, all good. that blue polo shirt — it's gone, too! and i get like, like ... transformational.(beat)and nobody pulls out a belt and whips batman for talkin' back.(beat)or for not talkin' back.and nobody calls batman simple or stupid or skinny. and nobody fires batman's brother from the eastern taxi company 'cause they was making cutbacks, neither. 'cause they got nothing but respect. and not like afraid-respect, just, like, respect-respect. 'cause nobody's afraid of you. 'cause batman doesn't mean nobody no harm.(beat)ever. (double beat)'cause all batman really wants to do is save people and maybe pay abuela's bills one day and die happy. and maybe get, like, mad-famous for real. oh — and kill the joker.(drum roll)tonight, like most nights, i'm all alone. and i'm watchin' and i'm waitin' like a eagle or like a — no, yeah, like a eagle. and my cape is flapping in the wind cause it's frickin' long and my pointy ears are on, and that mask that covers like half my face is on, too, and i got, like, bulletproof stuff all in my chest so no one can hurt me. and nobody — nobody! — is gonna come between batman ... and justice.(drums) from where i am, i can hear everything.(silence)somewhere in the city, there's a old lady picking styrofoam leftovers up out of a trash can and she's putting a piece of sesame chicken someone spit out into her own mouth. and somewhere there's a doctor with a wack haircut in a black lab coat trying to find a cure for the diseases that are gonna make us all extinct for real one day. and somewhere there's a man, a man in a janitor's uniform, stumbling home drunk and dizzy after spending half his paycheck on 40-ounce bottles of twist-off beer, and the other half on a four-hour visit to some lady's house on a street where the lights have all been shot out by people who'd rather do what they do in this city in the dark. and half a block away from janitor man, there's a group of good-for-nothings who don't know no better, waiting for janitor man with rusted bicycle chains and imitation louisville sluggers, and if they don't find a cent on him, which they won't, they'll just pound at him till the muscles in their arms start burning, till there's no more teeth to crack out.but they don't count on me. they don't count on no dark knight, with a stomach full of grocery-store brand macaroni and cheese and cut-up vienna sausages. 'cause they'd rather believe i don't exist.and from 87 stories up, i can hear one of the good-for-nothings say, "gimme the cash!" — real fast like that, just, "gimme me the fuckin' cash!" and i see janitor man mumble something in drunk language and turn pale, and from 87 stories up, i can hear his stomach trying to hurl its way out his dickies.so i swoop down, like, mad-fast and i'm like darkness, i'm like, "swoosh!" and i throw a batarang at the one naked lightbulb.(cymbal)and they're all like, "whoa, muthafucker! who just turned out the lights?" "what's that over there?" "what?""gimme me what you got, old man!""did anybody hear that?" "hear what? there ain't nothing. no, really — there ain't no bat!"but then ... one out of the three good-for-nothings gets it to the head — pow!and number two swings blindly into the dark cape before him, but before his fist hits anything, i grab a trash can lid and — right in the gut! and number one comes back with the jump kick, but i know judo karate, too, so i'm like —(drums)twice!(drums) (drums)but before i can do any more damage, suddenly we all hear a "click-click." and suddenly everything gets quiet. and the one good-for-nothing left standing grips a handgun and aims it straight up, like he's holding jesus hostage, like he's threatening maybe to blow a hole in the moon. and the good-for-nothing who got it to the head, who tried to jump-kick me, and the other good-for-nothing who got it in the gut, is both scrambling back away from the dark figure before 'em. and the drunk man, the janitor man, is huddled in a corner, praying to saint anthony 'cause that's the only one he could remember.(double beat) and there's me: eyes glowing white, cape blowing softly in the wind.(beat) bulletproof chest heaving, my heart beating right through it in a morse code for: "fuck with me just once come on just try."and the one good-for-nothing left standing, the one with the handgun — yeah, he laughs. and he lowers his arm. and he points it at me and gives the moon a break. and he aims it right between my pointy ears, like goal posts and he's special teams. and janitor man is still calling saint anthony, but he ain't pickin' up. and for a second, it seems like ... maybe i'm gonna lose.nah!(drums)shoot! shoot! fwa-ka-ka!"don't kill me, man!"snap! wrist crack! neck! slash!skin meets acid: "ahhhhhhh!"and he's on the floor and i'm standing over him and i got the gun in my hands now and i hate guns, i hate holding 'em 'cause i'm batman. and, asterisk: batman don't like guns 'cause his parents got iced by guns a long time ago. but for just a second, my eyes glow white, and i hold this thing for i could speak to the good-for-nothing in a language he maybe understands. click-click!(beat)and the good-for-nothings become good-for-disappearing into whatever toxic waste, chemical sludge shithole they crawled out of. and it's just me and janitor man. and i pick him up, and i wipe sweat and cheap perfume off his forehead. and he begs me not to hurt him and i grab him tight by his janitor-man shirt collar, and i pull him to my face and he's taller than me but the cape helps, so he listens when i look him straight in the eyes. and i say two words to him: "go home."and he does, checking behind his shoulder every 10 feet. and i swoosh from building to building on his way there 'cause i know where he lives. and i watch his hands tremble as he pulls out his key chain and opens the door to his building. and i'm back in bed before he even walks in through the front door.and i hear him turn on the faucet and pour himself a glass of warm tap water. and he puts the glass back in the sink. and i hear his footsteps. and they get slower as they get to my room. and he creaks my door open, like, mad-slow. and he takes a step in, which he never does.(beat) and he's staring off into nowhere, his face, the color of sidewalks in summer. and i act like i'm just waking up and i say, "ah, what's up, pop?" and janitor man says nothing to me. but i see in the dark, i see his arms go limp and his head turns back, like, towards me. and he lifts it for i can see his face, for i could see his eyes. and his cheeks is drippin', but not with sweat. and he just stands there breathing, like he remembers my eyes glowing white, like he remembers my bulletproof chest, like he remembers he's my pop. and for a long time i don't say nothin'. and he turns around, hand on the doorknob. and he ain't looking my way, but i hear him mumble two words to me: "i'm sorry."and i lean over, and i open my window just a crack. if you look up high enough, you could see me. and from where i am —(cymbals)i could hear everything. thank you. <title = "A smarter, more precise way to think about public health">
<tags = "['Africa', 'HIV', 'big problems', 'communication', 'disease', 'future', 'global issues', 'health', 'health care', 'illness', 'inequality', 'innovation', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'parenting', 'public health']">
<occupation = "CEO, Gates Foundation">
ok, first, some introductions. my mom, jennie, took this picture. that's my dad, frank, in the middle. and on his left, my sisters: mary catherine, judith ann, theresa marie. john patrick's sitting on his lap and kevin michael's on his right. and in the pale-blue windbreaker, susan diane. me. i loved growing up in a big family. and one of my favorite things was picking names. but by the time child number seven came along, we had nearly run out of middle names. it was a long deliberation before we finally settled on jennifer bridget. every parent in this audience knows the joy and excitement of picking a new baby's name. and i was excited and thrilled to help my mom in that special ceremonial moment.but it's not like that everywhere. i travel a lot and i see a lot. but it took me by surprise to learn in an area of ethiopia, parents delay picking the names for their new babies by a month or more. why delay? why not take advantage of this special ceremonial time? well, they delay because they're afraid. they're afraid their baby will die. and this loss might be a little more bearable without a name. a face without a name might help them feel just a little less attached.so here we are in one part of the world — a time of joy, excitement, dreaming of the future of that child — while in another world, parents are filled with dread, not daring to dream of a future for their child beyond a few precious weeks. how can that be? how can it be that 2.6 million babies die around the world before they're even one month old? 2.6 million. that's the population of vancouver. and the shocking thing is: why? in too many cases, we simply don't know.now, i remember recently seeing an updated pie chart. and the pie chart was labeled, "causes of death in children under five worldwide." and there was a pretty big section of that pie chart, about 40 percent — 40 percent was labeled "neonatal." now, "neonatal" is not a cause of death. neonatal is simply an adjective, an adjective that means that the child is less than one month old. for me, "neonatal" said: "we have no idea."now, i'm a scientist. i'm a doctor. i want to fix things. but you can't fix what you can't define. so our first step in restoring the dreams of those parents is to answer the question: why are babies dying?so today, i want to talk about a new approach, an approach that i feel will not only help us know why babies are dying, but is beginning to completely transform the whole field of global health. it's called "precision public health."for me, precision medicine comes from a very special place. i trained as a cancer doctor, an oncologist. i got into it because i wanted to help people feel better. but too often my treatments made them feel worse. i still remember young women being driven to my clinic by their moms — adults, who had to be helped into my exam room by their mothers. they were so weak from the treatment i had given them. but at the time, in those front lines in the war on cancer, we had few tools. and the tools we did have couldn't differentiate between the cancer cells that we wanted to hit hard and those healthy cells that we wanted to preserve. and so the side effects that you're all very familiar with — hair loss, being sick to your stomach, having a suppressed immune system, so infection was a constant threat — were always surrounding us.and then i moved to the biotechnology industry. and i got to work on a new approach for breast cancer patients that could do a better job of telling the healthy cells from the unhealthy or cancer cells. it's a drug called herceptin. and what herceptin allowed us to do is to precisely target her2-positive breast cancer, at the time, the scariest form of breast cancer. and that precision let us hit hard the cancer cells, while sparing and being more gentle on the normal cells. a huge breakthrough. it felt like a miracle, so much so that today, we're harnessing all those tools — big data, consumer monitoring, gene sequencing and more — to tackle a broad variety of diseases. that's allowing us to target individuals with the right remedies at the right time.precision medicine revolutionized cancer therapy. everything changed. and i want everything to change again. so i've been asking myself: why should we limit this smarter, more precise, better way to tackle diseases to the rich world? now, don't misunderstand me — i'm not talking about bringing expensive medicines like herceptin to the developing world, although i'd actually kind of like that. what i am talking about is moving from this precise targeting for individuals to tackle public health problems in populations.now, ok, i know probably you're thinking, "she's crazy. you can't do that. that's too ambitious." but here's the thing: we're already doing this in a limited way, and it's already starting to make a big difference.so here's what's happening. now, i told you i trained as a cancer doctor. but like many, many doctors who trained in san francisco in the '80s, i also trained as an aids doctor. it was a terrible time. aids was a death sentence. all my patients died. now, things are better, but hiv/aids remains a terrible global challenge. worldwide, about 17 million women are living with hiv. we know that when these women become pregnant, they can transfer the virus to their baby. we also know in the absence of therapy, half those babies will not survive until the age of two. but we know that antiretroviral therapy can virtually guarantee that she will not transmit the virus to the baby. so what do we do?well, a one-size-fits-all approach, kind of like that blast of chemo, would mean we test and treat every pregnant woman in the world. that would do the job. but it's just not practical. so instead, we target those areas where hiv rates are the highest. we know in certain countries in sub-saharan africa we can test and treat pregnant women where rates are highest. this precision approach to a public health problem has cut by nearly half hiv transmission from mothers to baby in the last five years. screening pregnant women in certain areas in the developing world is a powerful example of how precision public health can change things on a big scale.so ... how do we do that? we can do that because we know. we know who to target, what to target, where to target and how to target. and that, for me, are the important elements of precision public health: who, what, where and how.but let's go back to the 2.6 million babies who die before they're one month old. here's the problem: we just don't know. it may seem unbelievable, but the way we figure out the causes of infant mortality in those countries with the highest infant mortality is a conversation with mom. a health worker asks a mom who has just lost her child, "was the baby vomiting? did they have a fever?" and that conversation may take place as long as three months after the baby has died. now, put yourself in the shoes of that mom. it's a heartbreaking, excruciating conversation. and even worse — it's not that helpful, because we might know there was a fever or vomiting, but we don't know why. so in the absence of knowing that knowledge, we cannot prevent that mom, that family, or other families in that community from suffering the same tragedy.but what if we applied a precision public health approach? let's say, for example, we find out in certain areas of africa that babies are dying because of a bacterial infection transferred from the mother to the baby, known as group b streptococcus. in the absence of treatment, mom has a seven times higher chance that her next baby will die. once we define the problem, we can prevent that death with something as cheap and safe as penicillin. we can do that because then we'll know. and that's the point: once we know, we can bring the right interventions to the right population in the right places to save lives.with this approach, and with these interventions and others like them, i have no doubt that a precision public health approach can help our world achieve our 15-year goal. and that would translate into a million babies' lives saved every single year. one million babies every single year.and why would we stop there? a much more powerful approach to public health — imagine what might be possible. why couldn't we more effectively tackle malnutrition? why wouldn't we prevent cervical cancer in women? and why not eradicate malaria? yes, clap for that! so, you know, i live in two different worlds, one world populated by scientists, and another world populated by public health professionals. the promise of precision public health is to bring these two worlds together. but you know, we all live in two worlds: the rich world and the poor world. and what i'm most excited about about precision public health is bridging these two worlds. every day in the rich world, we're bringing incredible talent and tools — everything at our disposal — to precisely target diseases in ways i never imagined would be possible. surely, we can tap into that kind of talent and tools to stop babies dying in the poor world. if we did, then every parent would have the confidence to name their child the moment that child is born, daring to dream that that child's life will be measured in decades, not days.thank you. <title = "The real harm of the global arms trade">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Guns', 'activism', 'big problems', 'business', 'children', 'community', 'death', 'economics', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'security', 'society', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Doctor, writer and humanitarian">
thank you very much. good evening.some of you may have noticed that my last name is nutt. and if you did, you are forgiven for wondering how a nutt managed to end up in a war zone. i actually was offered, right out of medical school, and accepted a volunteer contract to work with unicef in war-torn somalia, that was worth one dollar. and, you see, i had to be paid this dollar in the event that the un needed to issue an evacuation order, so that i would be covered. i was, after all, heading into one of the world's most dangerous places. and by now, some of you may be asking yourselves, and i just want to reassure you, that i did get half the money up front. but you see, this is how, with 50 cents in my pocket, i ended up in baidoa, somalia. journalists called it the "city of death." and they called it the city of death because 300,000 people had lost their lives there — 300,000 people, mostly as a result of war-related famine and disease.i was part of a team that was tasked with trying to figure out how best to respond to this humanitarian catastrophe. it was right on the heels of the rwandan genocide, and aid money to the region was drying up. many aid organizations, unfortunately, had been forced to close their doors. and so the question that i was asked to specifically help answer, which is one that aid workers ask themselves in war zones the world over, is: what the hell do we do now? you know, the security environment in somalia at that moment in time — and nothing has really changed too much — can best be described as "mad max" by way of "a clockwork orange."and i remember very distinctly a couple of days after my arrival, i went up to a feeding clinic. there were dozens of women who were standing in line, and they were clutching their infants very close. about 20 minutes into this conversation i was having with this one young woman, i leaned forward and tried to put my finger in the palm of her baby's hand. and when i did this, i discovered that her baby was already in rigor. she was stiff, and her little, lifeless hand was curled into itself. she had died hours before of malnutrition and dehydration. i later learned that as her baby was dying, this young woman had been held for two days by some teenage boys who were armed with kalashnikov rifles, and they were trying to shake her down for more money, money she very clearly did not have. and this is a scene that i have confronted in war zones the world over; places where kids, some as young as eight — they are this big — and those kids, they have never been to school. but they have fought and they have killed with automatic rifles.is this just the way the world is? some will you tell you that war is unavoidably human. after all, it is as old as existence itself. we say never again, and yet it happens again and again and again. but i will tell you that i have seen the absolute worst of what we as human beings are capable of doing to one another, and yet i still believe a different outcome is possible. do you want to know why? because over 20 years of doing this work, going in and out of war zones around the world, i have come to understand that there are aspects of this problem that we, all of us, as people occupying this shared space, that we can change — not through force or coercion or invasion, but by simply looking at all of the options available to us and choosing the ones that favor peace at the expense of war, instead of war at the expense of peace.how so? well, i want you to consider this: there are at least 800 million small arms and light weapons in circulation in the world today. the vast majority of civilians, like that young baby, who are dying in war zones around the world, are dying at the hands of various armed groups who rely on a near-infinite supply of cheap, easy and efficient weapons to rape, threaten, intimidate and brutalize those civilians at every turn. how cheap? well, in some parts of the world, you can buy an ak-47 for as little as 10 dollars. in many places in which i have worked, it is easier to get access to an automatic rifle than it is to get access to clean drinking water.and so now the important part: can anything be done about this? to answer that question, let's take a look at this map of the world. and now, let's add in all of the countries that are currently at war, and the number of people who have either died or have been displaced as a result of that violence. it is a staggering number — more than 40 million people. but you will also notice something else about this map. you will notice that most of those countries are in the global south. now, let's look at the countries that are the world's top 20 exporters of small arms in the world. and what do we notice? well, you see them in green. you will notice that those are mostly countries in the global north, primarily western countries. what does this tell us? this tells us that most of the people who are dying in war are living in poor countries, and yet most of the people who are profiting from war are living in rich countries — people like you and me.and then what if we go beyond small arms for a second. what if we look at all weapons in circulation in the world? who does the biggest business? well, roughly 80 percent of those weapons come from none other than the five permanent members of the united nations security council, plus germany. it's shocking, isn't it?now, some of you might be saying at this moment in time, "oh yeah, but ok, hang on a second there ... nutt." grade school was spectacular for me. it was, really, a wonderful experience. but you might be saying to yourselves, you know, all of these weapons in war zones — they're not a cause, but an effect of the violence that plagues them each and every single day. you know, places like iraq and afghanistan, where they need these weapons to be able to maintain law and order, promote peace and security, to combat terror groups — surely this is a good thing.let's take a look at that assumption for just one moment, because you see there has been a boom in the small-arms trade since the start of the war on terror. in fact, it is a business that has grown threefold over the past 15 years. and now let's compare that to the number of people who have directly died in armed conflict around the world in that same period. what do you notice? well, you notice that, in fact, that also goes up roughly three- to fourfold. they basically go up and end at the same point.now, we can have a circular argument here about whether this increase in fatalities is a response to the increase of small arms, or the other way around. but here's what we should really take away from this. what we should take away from this is that this is a relationship worth scrutinizing, especially when you consider that small arms that were shipped to iraq for use by the iraqi army, or to syria for so-called moderate opposition fighters, that those arms, many of them, are now in the hands of isis; or when you consider that arms that were shipped to libya are now actively drifting across the sahel, and ending up with groups like boko haram and al qaeda and other militant groups.and therein lies the problem. because, you see, small arms anywhere are a menace everywhere, because their first stop is rarely their last.spending on war per person per year now amounts to about 249 dollars — 249 dollars per person, which is roughly 12 times what we spend on foreign aid, money that is used to educate and vaccinate children and combat malnutrition in the global south. but we can shift that balance. how do we do this? well, it is essentially a problem of both supply and demand, so we can tackle it from both sides.on the supply side, we can push our governments to adopt international arms transparency mechanisms like the arms trade treaty, which makes it so that rich countries have to be more accountable for where their arms are going and what their arms might be used for. here in the united states, the largest arms-exporting country in the world by far, president obama has rightly signed the arms trade treaty, but none of it takes effect, it isn't binding, until it is approved and ratified by the senate. this is where we need to make our voices heard. you know, the curbing of small arms — it's not going to solve the problem of war. increased control mechanisms won't solve that problem. but it's an important step in the right direction. and it's up to all of us who live in those rich countries to make change here.what about on the demand side? you know, there are generations around the world who are being lost to war. it is possible to disrupt that cycle of violence with investments in education, in strengthening the rule of law and in economic development, especially for women. i have personally seen just how incredibly powerful those kinds of efforts can be around the world.but here's the thing: they take time, which means for you as individuals, if you want to give, please, by all means do it. but know that how you give is just as important as how much you give. regular contributions like monthly contributions are a far more effective way of giving, because they allow humanitarian organizations to properly plan and be invested over the long term, and to be present in the lives of families who have been affected by war, wars that many of us, frankly, all too quickly forget.when i first got on that plane for somalia as a young doctor, i had no idea what it meant to live with war. but i can tell you that i know what it means now. and i know what it means to lie in bed in the pitch-black night and listen to that haunting "pop-pop-pop-pop-pop!" of automatic gunfire, and wonder with absolute dread how many minutes i have left until it will be right on top of me. i can tell you that it is a terrifying and agonizing fear, one that millions of people around the world are forced to confront each and every single day, especially children. over the years of doing this work, unfortunately, war has killed far too many people close to me. and on at least a couple of occasions, war has very nearly killed me as well.but i firmly believe, which is why i get up and do what i do every single day, that we can make different choices here. because you see, war is ours, as human beings. we buy it, sell it, spread it and wage it. we are therefore not powerless to solve it. on the contrary, we are the only ones who can.thank you very much, and i want to wish you the greatest success. <title = "An entertainment icon on living a life of meaning">
<tags = "['activism', 'communication', 'creativity', 'entertainment', 'family', 'film', 'identity', 'interview', 'life', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'television']">
<occupation = "Producer, activist">
eric hirshberg: so i assume that norman doesn't need much of an introduction, but ted's audience is global, it's diverse, so i've been tasked with starting with his bio, which could easily take up the entire 18 minutes. so instead we're going to do 93 years in 93 seconds or less. you were born in new hampshire.norman lear: new haven, connecticut.eh: new haven, connecticut. nl: there goes seven more seconds.eh: nailed it. you were born in new haven, connecticut. your father was a con man — i got that right. he was taken away to prison when you were nine years old. you flew 52 missions as a fighter pilot in world war ii. you came back to —nl: radio operator.eh: you came to la to break into hollywood, first in publicity, then in tv. you had no training as a writer, formally, but you hustled your way in. your breakthrough, your debut, was a little show called "all in the family." you followed that up with a string of hits that to this day is unmatched in hollywood: "sanford and son," "maude," "good times," "the jeffersons," "one day at a time," "mary hartman, mary hartman," to name literally a fraction of them. not only are they all commercially — not only are they all commercially successful, but many of them push our culture forward by giving the underrepresented members of society their first prime-time voice. you have seven shows in the top 10 at one time. at one point, you aggregate an audience of 120 million people per week watching your content. that's more than the audience for super bowl 50, which happens once a year.nl: holy shit. eh: and we're not even to the holy shit part. you land yourself on richard nixon's enemies list — he had one.that's an applause line, too. you're inducted into the tv hall of fame on the first day that it exists. then came the movies. "fried green tomatoes," "the princess bride," "stand by me," "this is spinal tap." again, just to name a fraction. then you wipe the slate clean, start a third act as a political activist focusing on protecting the first amendment and the separation of church and state. you start people for the american way. you buy the declaration of independence and give it back to the people. you stay active in both entertainment and politics until the ripe old of age of 93, when you write a book and make a documentary about your life story. and after all that, they finally think you're ready for a ted talk. nl: i love being here. and i love you for agreeing to do this.eh: thank you for asking. it's my honor. so here's my first question. was your mother proud of you? nl: my mother ... what a place to start. let me put it this way — when i came back from the war, she showed me the letters that i had written her from overseas, and they were absolute love letters. this really sums up my mother. they were love letters, as if i had written them to — they were love letters. a year later i asked my mother if i could have them, because i'd like to keep them all the years of my life ... she had thrown them away. that's my mother. the best way i can sum it up in more recent times is — this is also more recent times — a number of years ago, when they started the hall of fame to which you referred. it was a sunday morning, when i got a call from the fellow who ran the tv academy of arts & sciences. he was calling me to tell me they had met all day yesterday and he was confidentially telling me they were going to start a hall of fame and these were the inductees. i started to say "richard nixon," because richard nixon —eh: i don't think he was on their list.nl: william paley, who started cbs, david sarnoff, who started nbc, edward r. murrow, the greatest of the foreign correspondents, paddy chayefsky — i think the best writer that ever came out of television — milton berle, lucille ball and me.eh: not bad.nl: i call my mother immediately in hartford, connecticut. "mom, this is what's happened, they're starting a hall of fame."i tell her the list of names and me, and she says, "listen, if that's what they want to do, who am i to say?" that's my ma. i think it earns that kind of a laugh because everybody has a piece of that mother. eh: and the sitcom jewish mother is born, right there.so your father also played a large role in your life, mostly by his absence.nl: yeah.eh: tell us what happened when you were nine years old.nl: he was flying to oklahoma with three guys that my mother said, "i don't want you to have anything to do with them, i don't trust those men." that's when i heard, maybe not for the first time, "stifle yourself, jeanette, i'm going." and he went. it turns out he was picking up some fake bonds, which he was flying across the country to sell. but the fact that he was going to oklahoma in a plane, and he was going to bring me back a 10-gallon hat, just like ken maynard, my favorite cowboy wore. you know, this was a few years after lindbergh crossed the atlantic. i mean, it was exotic that my father was going there. but when he came back, they arrested him as he got off the plane.that night newspapers were all over the house, my father was with his hat in front of his face, manacled to a detective. and my mother was selling the furniture, because we were leaving — she didn't want to stay in that state of shame, in chelsea, massachusetts. and selling the furniture — the house was loaded with people.and in the middle of all of that, some strange horse's ass put his hand on my shoulder and said, "well, you're the man of the house now." i'm crying, and this asshole says, "you're the man of the house now." and i think that was the moment i began to understand the foolishness of the human condition. so ... it took a lot of years to look back at it and feel it was a benefit. but —eh: it's interesting you call it a benefit.nl: benefit in that it gave me that springboard. i mean that i could think how foolish it was to say to this crying nine-year-old boy, "you're the man of the house now." and then i was crying, and then he said, "and men of the house don't cry." and i ... so ... i look back, and i think that's when i learned the foolishness of the human condition, and it's been that gift that i've used.eh: so you have a father who's absent, you have a mother for whom apparently nothing is good enough. do you think that starting out as a kid who maybe never felt heard started you down a journey that ended with you being an adult with a weekly audience of 120 million people?nl: i love the way you put that question, because i guess i've spent my life wanting — if anything, wanting to be heard. i think — it's a simple answer, yes, that was what sparked — well, there were other things, too. when my father was away, i was fooling with a crystal radio set that we had made together, and i caught a signal that turned out to be father coughlin. yeah, somebody laughed. but not funny, this was a horse's — another horse's ass — who was very vocal about hating the new deal and roosevelt and jews. the first time i ran into an understanding that there were people in this world that hated me because i was born to jewish parents. and that had an enormous effect on my life.eh: so you had a childhood with little in the way of strong male role models, except for your grandfather. tell us about him.nl: oh, my grandfather. well here's the way i always talked about that grandfather. there were parades, lots of parades when i was a kid. there were parades on veteran's day — there wasn't a president's day. there was abraham lincoln's birthday, george washington's birthday and flag day ... and lots of little parades. my grandfather used to take me and we'd stand on the street corner, he'd hold my hand, and i'd look up and i'd see a tear running down his eye. and he meant a great deal to me.and he used to write presidents of the united states. every letter started, "my dearest, darling mr. president," and he'd tell him something wonderful about what he did. but when he disagreed with the president, he also wrote, "my dearest, darling mr. president, didn't i tell you last week ...?" and i would run down the stairs every now and then and pick up the mail. we were three flights up, 74 york street, new haven, connecticut. and i'd pick up a little white envelope reading, "shya c. called at this address." and that's the story i have told about my grandfather —eh: they wrote him back on the envelopes —nl: they wrote back. but i have shown them myself, going way back to phil donahue and others before him, literally dozens of interviews in which i told that story. this will be the second time i have said the whole story was a lie. the truth was my grandfather took me to parades, we had lots of those. the truth is a tear came down his eye.the truth is he would write an occasional letter, and i did pick up those little envelopes. but "my dearest darling mr. president," all the rest of it, is a story i borrowed from a good friend whose grandfather was that grandfather who wrote those letters. and, i mean, i stole arthur marshall's grandfather and made him my own. always.when i started to write my memoir — "even this —" how about that? "even this i get to experience." when i started to write the memoir and i started to think about it, and then i — i — i did a reasonable amount of crying, and i realized how much i needed the father. so much so that i appropriated arthur marshall's grandfather. so much so, the word "father" — i have six kids by the way. my favorite role in life. it and husband to my wife lyn. but i stole the man's identity because i needed the father.now i've gone through a whole lot of shit and come out on the other side, and i forgive my father — the best thing i — the worst thing i — the word i'd like to use about him and think about him is — he was a rascal. the fact that he lied and stole and cheated and went to prison ... i submerge that in the word "rascal."eh: well there's a saying that amateurs borrow and professionals steal.nl: i'm a pro.eh: you're a pro. and that quote is widely attributed to john lennon, but it turns out he stole it from t.s. eliot. so you're in good company. eh: i want to talk about your work. obviously the impact of your work has been written about and i'm sure you've heard about it all your life: what it meant to people, what it meant to our culture, you heard the applause when i just named the names of the shows, you raised half the people in the room through your work. but have there ever been any stories about the impact of your work that surprised you?nl: oh, god — surprised me and delighted me from head to toe. there was "an evening with norman lear" within the last year that a group of hip-hop impresarios, performers and the academy put together. the subtext of "an evening with ..." was: what do a 92-year-old jew — then 92 — and the world of hip-hop have in common? russell simmons was among seven on the stage. and when he talked about the shows, he wasn't talking about the hollywood, george jefferson in "the jeffersons," or the show that was a number five show. he was talking about a simple thing that made a big —eh: impact on him?nl: an impact on him — i was hesitating over the word, "change." it's hard for me to imagine, you know, changing somebody's life, but that's the way he put it. he saw george jefferson write a check on "the jeffersons," and he never knew that a black man could write a check. and he says it just impacted his life so — it changed his life.and when i hear things like that — little things — because i know that there isn't anybody in this audience that wasn't likely responsible today for some little thing they did for somebody, whether it's as little as a smile or an unexpected "hello," that's how little this thing was. it could have been the dresser of the set who put the checkbook on the thing, and george had nothing to do while he was speaking, so he wrote it, i don't know. but —eh: so in addition to the long list i shared in the beginning, i should have also mentioned that you invented hip-hop. nl: well ...eh: i want to talk about —nl: well, then do it. eh: you've lead a life of accomplishment, but you've also built a life of meaning. and all of us strive to do both of those things — not all of us manage to. but even those of us who do manage to accomplish both of those, very rarely do we figure out how to do them together. you managed to push culture forward through your art while also achieving world-beating commercial success. how did you do both?nl: here's where my mind goes when i hear that recitation of all i accomplished. this planet is one of a billion, they tell us, in a universe of which there are billions — billions of universes, billions of planets ... which we're trying to save and it requires saving. but ... anything i may have accomplished is — my sister once asked me what she does about something that was going on in newington, connecticut. and i said, "write your alderman or your mayor or something." she said, "well i'm not norman lear, i'm claire lear." and that was the first time i said what i'm saying, i said, "claire. with everything you think about what i may have done and everything you've done," — she never left newington — "can you get your fingers close enough when you consider the size of the planet and so forth, to measure anything i may have done to anything you may have done?"so ... i am convinced we're all responsible for doing as much as i may have accomplished. and i understand what you're saying —eh: it's an articulate deflection —nl: but you have to really buy into the size and scope of the creator's enterprise, here.eh: but here on this planet you have really mattered.nl: i'm a son of a gun. eh: so i have one more question for you. how old do you feel?nl: i am the peer of whoever i'm talking to.eh: well, i feel 93. nl: we out of here?eh: well, i feel 93 years old, but i hope to one day feel as young as the person i'm sitting across from.ladies and gentlemen, the incomparable norman lear. nl: thank you. <title = "The passing of time, caught in a single photo">
<tags = "['Africa', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'environment', 'photography', 'technology', 'time', 'visualizations', 'water']">
<occupation = "Narrative photographer">
i'm driven by pure passion to create photographs that tell stories. photography can be described as the recording of a single moment frozen within a fraction of time. each moment or photograph represents a tangible piece of our memories as time passes. but what if you could capture more than one moment in a photograph? what if a photograph could actually collapse time, compressing the best moments of the day and the night seamlessly into one single image?i've created a concept called "day to night" and i believe it's going to change the way you look at the world. i know it has for me.my process begins by photographing iconic locations, places that are part of what i call our collective memory. i photograph from a fixed vantage point, and i never move. i capture the fleeting moments of humanity and light as time passes. photographing for anywhere from 15 to 30 hours and shooting over 1,500 images, i then choose the best moments of the day and night.using time as a guide, i seamlessly blend those best moments into one single photograph, visualizing our conscious journey with time. i can take you to paris for a view from the tournelle bridge. and i can show you the early morning rowers along the river seine. and simultaneously, i can show you notre dame aglow at night. and in between, i can show you the romance of the city of light.i am essentially a street photographer from 50 feet in the air, and every single thing you see in this photograph actually happened on this day.day to night is a global project, and my work has always been about history. i'm fascinated by the concept of going to a place like venice and actually seeing it during a specific event. and i decided i wanted to see the historical regata, an event that's actually been taking place since 1498. the boats and the costumes look exactly as they did then. and an important element that i really want you guys to understand is: this is not a timelapse, this is me photographing throughout the day and the night. i am a relentless collector of magical moments. and the thing that drives me is the fear of just missing one of them.the entire concept came about in 1996. life magazine commissioned me to create a panoramic photograph of the cast and crew of baz luhrmann's film romeo + juliet. i got to the set and realized: it's a square. so the only way i could actually create a panoramic was to shoot a collage of 250 single images. so i had dicaprio and claire danes embracing. and as i pan my camera to the right, i noticed there was a mirror on the wall and i saw they were actually reflecting in it. and for that one moment, that one image i asked them, "would you guys just kiss for this one picture?" and then i came back to my studio in new york, and i hand-glued these 250 images together and stood back and went, "wow, this is so cool! i'm changing time in a photograph." and that concept actually stayed with me for 13 years until technology finally has caught up to my dreams.this is an image i created of the santa monica pier, day to night. and i'm going to show you a little video that gives you an idea of what it's like being with me when i do these pictures. to start with, you have to understand that to get views like this, most of my time is spent up high, and i'm usually in a cherry picker or a crane. so this is a typical day, 12-18 hours, non-stop capturing the entire day unfold.one of the things that's great is i love to people-watch. and trust me when i tell you, this is the greatest seat in the house to have.but this is really how i go about creating these photographs. so once i decide on my view and the location, i have to decide where day begins and night ends. and that's what i call the time vector. einstein described time as a fabric. think of the surface of a trampoline: it warps and stretches with gravity. i see time as a fabric as well, except i take that fabric and flatten it, compress it into single plane.one of the unique aspects of this work is also, if you look at all my pictures, the time vector changes: sometimes i'll go left to right, sometimes front to back, up or down, even diagonally. i am exploring the space-time continuum within a two-dimensional still photograph.now when i do these pictures, it's literally like a real-time puzzle going on in my mind. i build a photograph based on time, and this is what i call the master plate. this can take us several months to complete. the fun thing about this work is i have absolutely zero control when i get up there on any given day and capture photographs. so i never know who's going to be in the picture, if it's going to be a great sunrise or sunset — no control. it's at the end of the process, if i've had a really great day and everything remained the same, that i then decide who's in and who's out, and it's all based on time. i'll take those best moments that i pick over a month of editing and they get seamlessly blended into the master plate. i'm compressing the day and night as i saw it, creating a unique harmony between these two very discordant worlds.painting has always been a really important influence in all my work and i've always been a huge fan of albert bierstadt, the great hudson river school painter. he inspired a recent series that i did on the national parks. this is bierstadt's yosemite valley. so this is the photograph i created of yosemite. this is actually the cover story of the 2016 january issue of national geographic. i photographed for over 30 hours in this picture. i was literally on the side of a cliff, capturing the stars and the moonlight as it transitions, the moonlight lighting el capitan. and i also captured this transition of time throughout the landscape. the best part is obviously seeing the magical moments of humanity as time changed — from day into night.and on a personal note, i actually had a photocopy of bierstadt's painting in my pocket. and when that sun started to rise in the valley, i started to literally shake with excitement because i looked at the painting and i go, "oh my god, i'm getting bierstadt's exact same lighting 100 years earlier."day to night is about all the things, it's like a compilation of all the things i love about the medium of photography. it's about landscape, it's about street photography, it's about color, it's about architecture, perspective, scale — and, especially, history.this is one of the most historical moments i've been able to photograph, the 2013 presidential inauguration of barack obama. and if you look closely in this picture, you can actually see time changing in those large television sets. you can see michelle waiting with the children, the president now greets the crowd, he takes his oath, and now he's speaking to the people. there's so many challenging aspects when i create photographs like this. for this particular photograph, i was in a 50-foot scissor lift up in the air and it was not very stable. so every time my assistant and i shifted our weight, our horizon line shifted. so for every picture you see, and there were about 1,800 in this picture, we both had to tape our feet into position every time i clicked the shutter. i've learned so many extraordinary things doing this work. i think the two most important are patience and the power of observation. when you photograph a city like new york from above, i discovered that those people in cars that i sort of live with everyday, they don't look like people in cars anymore. they feel like a giant school of fish, it was a form of emergent behavior. and when people describe the energy of new york, i think this photograph begins to really capture that. when you look closer in my work, you can see there's stories going on. you realize that times square is a canyon, it's shadow and it's sunlight. so i decided, in this photograph, i would checkerboard time. so wherever the shadows are, it's night and wherever the sun is, it's actually day.time is this extraordinary thing that we never can really wrap our heads around. but in a very unique and special way, i believe these photographs begin to put a face on time. they embody a new metaphysical visual reality. when you spend 15 hours looking at a place, you're going to see things a little differently than if you or i walked up with our camera, took a picture, and then walked away.this was a perfect example. i call it "sacré-coeur selfie." i watched over 15 hours all these people not even look at sacré-coeur. they were more interested in using it as a backdrop. they would walk up, take a picture, and then walk away. and i found this to be an absolutely extraordinary example, a powerful disconnect between what we think the human experience is versus what the human experience is evolving into. the act of sharing has suddenly become more important than the experience itself. and finally, my most recent image, which has such a special meaning for me personally: this is the serengeti national park in tanzania. and this is photographed in the middle of the seronera, this is not a reserve. i went specifically during the peak migration to hopefully capture the most diverse range of animals. unfortunately, when we got there, there was a drought going on during the peak migration, a five-week drought. so all the animals were drawn to the water. i found this one watering hole, and felt if everything remained the same way it was behaving, i had a real opportunity to capture something unique.we spent three days studying it, and nothing could have prepared me for what i witnessed during our shoot day. i photographed for 26 hours in a sealed crocodile blind, 18 feet in the air. what i witnessed was unimaginable. frankly, it was biblical. we saw, for 26 hours, all these competitive species share a single resource called water. the same resource that humanity is supposed to have wars over during the next 50 years. the animals never even grunted at each other. they seem to understand something that we humans don't. that this precious resource called water is something we all have to share.when i created this picture, i realized that day to night is really a new way of seeing, compressing time, exploring the space-time continuum within a photograph.as technology evolves along with photography, photographs will not only communicate a deeper meaning of time and memory, but they will compose a new narrative of untold stories, creating a timeless window into our world.thank you. <title = "What's so sexy about math?">
<tags = "['collaboration', 'education', 'history', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'math', 'nature', 'statistics', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Mathematician">
what is it that french people do better than all the others? if you would take polls, the top three answers might be: love, wine and whining. maybe. but let me suggest a fourth one: mathematics. did you know that paris has more mathematicians than any other city in the world? and more streets with mathematicians' names, too. and if you look at the statistics of the fields medal, often called the nobel prize for mathematics, and always awarded to mathematicians below the age of 40, you will find that france has more fields medalists per inhabitant than any other country.what is it that we find so sexy in math? after all, it seems to be dull and abstract, just numbers and computations and rules to apply. mathematics may be abstract, but it's not dull and it's not about computing. it is about reasoning and proving our core activity. it is about imagination, the talent which we most praise. it is about finding the truth. there's nothing like the feeling which invades you when after months of hard thinking, you finally understand the right reasoning to solve your problem. the great mathematician andré weil likened this — no kidding — to sexual pleasure. but noted that this feeling can last for hours, or even days.the reward may be big. hidden mathematical truths permeate our whole physical world. they are inaccessible to our senses but can be seen through mathematical lenses. close your eyes for moment and think of what is occurring right now around you. invisible particles from the air around are bumping on you by the billions and billions at each second, all in complete chaos. and still, their statistics can be accurately predicted by mathematical physics. and open your eyes now to the statistics of the velocities of these particles.the famous bell-shaped gauss curve, or the law of errors — of deviations with respect to the mean behavior. this curve tells about the statistics of velocities of particles in the same way as a demographic curve would tell about the statistics of ages of individuals. it's one of the most important curves ever. it keeps on occurring again and again, from many theories and many experiments, as a great example of the universality which is so dear to us mathematicians.of this curve, the famous scientist francis galton said, "it would have been deified by the greeks if they had known it. it is the supreme law of unreason." and there's no better way to materialize that supreme goddess than galton's board. inside this board are narrow tunnels through which tiny balls will fall down randomly, going right or left, or left, etc. all in complete randomness and chaos. let's see what happens when we look at all these random trajectories together.(board shaking)this is a bit of a sport, because we need to resolve some traffic jams in there. aha. we think that randomness is going to play me a trick on stage.there it is. our supreme goddess of unreason. the gauss curve, trapped here inside this transparent box as dream in "the sandman" comics. for you i have shown it, but to my students i explain why it could not be any other curve. and this is touching the mystery of that goddess, replacing a beautiful coincidence by a beautiful explanation.all of science is like this. and beautiful mathematical explanations are not only for our pleasure. they also change our vision of the world. for instance, einstein, perrin, smoluchowski, they used the mathematical analysis of random trajectories and the gauss curve to explain and prove that our world is made of atoms.it was not the first time that mathematics was revolutionizing our view of the world. more than 2,000 years ago, at the time of the ancient greeks, it already occurred. in those days, only a small fraction of the world had been explored, and the earth might have seemed infinite. but clever eratosthenes, using mathematics, was able to measure the earth with an amazing accuracy of two percent.here's another example. in 1673, jean richer noticed that a pendulum swings slightly slower in cayenne than in paris. from this observation alone, and clever mathematics, newton rightly deduced that the earth is a wee bit flattened at the poles, like 0.3 percent — so tiny that you wouldn't even notice it on the real view of the earth.these stories show that mathematics is able to make us go out of our intuition measure the earth which seems infinite, see atoms which are invisible or detect an imperceptible variation of shape. and if there is just one thing that you should take home from this talk, it is this: mathematics allows us to go beyond the intuition and explore territories which do not fit within our grasp.here's a modern example you will all relate to: searching the internet. the world wide web, more than one billion web pages — do you want to go through them all? computing power helps, but it would be useless without the mathematical modeling to find the information hidden in the data.let's work out a baby problem. imagine that you're a detective working on a crime case, and there are many people who have their version of the facts. who do you want to interview first? sensible answer: prime witnesses. you see, suppose that there is person number seven, tells you a story, but when you ask where he got if from, he points to person number three as a source. and maybe person number three, in turn, points at person number one as the primary source. now number one is a prime witness, so i definitely want to interview him — priority. and from the graph we also see that person number four is a prime witness. and maybe i even want to interview him first, because there are more people who refer to him.ok, that was easy, but now what about if you have a big bunch of people who will testify? and this graph, i may think of it as all people who testify in a complicated crime case, but it may just as well be web pages pointing to each other, referring to each other for contents. which ones are the most authoritative? not so clear.enter pagerank, one of the early cornerstones of google. this algorithm uses the laws of mathematical randomness to determine automatically the most relevant web pages, in the same way as we used randomness in the galton board experiment. so let's send into this graph a bunch of tiny, digital marbles and let them go randomly through the graph. each time they arrive at some site, they will go out through some link chosen at random to the next one. and again, and again, and again. and with small, growing piles, we'll keep the record of how many times each site has been visited by these digital marbles.here we go. randomness, randomness. and from time to time, also let's make jumps completely randomly to increase the fun.and look at this: from the chaos will emerge the solution. the highest piles correspond to those sites which somehow are better connected than the others, more pointed at than the others. and here we see clearly which are the web pages we want to first try. once again, the solution emerges from the randomness. of course, since that time, google has come up with much more sophisticated algorithms, but already this was beautiful.and still, just one problem in a million. with the advent of digital area, more and more problems lend themselves to mathematical analysis, making the job of mathematician a more and more useful one, to the extent that a few years ago, it was ranked number one among hundreds of jobs in a study about the best and worst jobs published by the wall street journal in 2009.mathematician — best job in the world. that's because of the applications: communication theory, information theory, game theory, compressed sensing, machine learning, graph analysis, harmonic analysis. and why not stochastic processes, linear programming, or fluid simulation? each of these fields have monster industrial applications. and through them, there is big money in mathematics. and let me concede that when it comes to making money from the math, the americans are by a long shot the world champions, with clever, emblematic billionaires and amazing, giant companies, all resting, ultimately, on good algorithm.now with all this beauty, usefulness and wealth, mathematics does look more sexy. but don't you think that the life a mathematical researcher is an easy one. it is filled with perplexity, frustration, a desperate fight for understanding.let me evoke for you one of the most striking days in my mathematician's life. or should i say, one of the most striking nights. at that time, i was staying at the institute for advanced studies in princeton — for many years, the home of albert einstein and arguably the most holy place for mathematical research in the world. and that night i was working and working on an elusive proof, which was incomplete. it was all about understanding the paradoxical stability property of plasmas, which are a crowd of electrons. in the perfect world of plasma, there are no collisions and no friction to provide the stability like we are used to. but still, if you slightly perturb a plasma equilibrium, you will find that the resulting electric field spontaneously vanishes, or damps out, as if by some mysterious friction force.this paradoxical effect, called the landau damping, is one of the most important in plasma physics, and it was discovered through mathematical ideas. but still, a full mathematical understanding of this phenomenon was missing. and together with my former student and main collaborator clément mouhot, in paris at the time, we had been working for months and months on such a proof. actually, i had already announced by mistake that we could solve it. but the truth is, the proof was just not working. in spite of more than 100 pages of complicated, mathematical arguments, and a bunch discoveries, and huge calculation, it was not working. and that night in princeton, a certain gap in the chain of arguments was driving me crazy. i was putting in there all my energy and experience and tricks, and still nothing was working. 1 a.m., 2 a.m., 3 a.m., not working. around 4 a.m., i go to bed in low spirits. then a few hours later, waking up and go, "ah, it's time to get the kids to school —" what is this? there was this voice in my head, i swear. "take the second term to the other side, fourier transform and invert in l2." damn it, that was the start of the solution!you see, i thought i had taken some rest, but really my brain had continued to work on it. in those moments, you don't think of your career or your colleagues, it's just a complete battle between the problem and you.that being said, it does not harm when you do get a promotion in reward for your hard work. and after we completed our huge analysis of the landau damping, i was lucky enough to get the most coveted fields medal from the hands of the president of india, in hyderabad on 19 august, 2010 — an honor that mathematicians never dare to dream, a day that i will remember until i live.what do you think, on such an occasion? pride, yes? and gratitude to the many collaborators who made this possible. and because it was a collective adventure, you need to share it, not just with your collaborators. i believe that everybody can appreciate the thrill of mathematical research, and share the passionate stories of humans and ideas behind it. and i've been working with my staff at institut henri poincaré, together with partners and artists of mathematical communication worldwide, so that we can found our own, very special museum of mathematics there.so in a few years, when you come to paris, after tasting the great, crispy baguette and macaroon, please come and visit us at institut henri poincaré, and share the mathematical dream with us.thank you. <title = "Every piece of art you've ever wanted to see -- up close and searchable">
<tags = "['Google', 'Internet', 'art', 'beauty', 'big bang', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'culture', 'data', 'exploration', 'future', 'history', 'innovation', 'library', 'machine learning', 'museums', 'painting', 'society', 'software', 'technology', 'visualizations', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Technologist">
the world is filled with incredible objects and rich cultural heritage. and when we get access to them, we are blown away, we fall in love. but most of the time, the world's population is living without real access to arts and culture. what might the connections be when we start exploring our heritage, the beautiful locations and the art in this world?before we get started in this presentation, i just want to take care of a few housekeeping points. first, i am no expert in art or culture. i fell into this by mistake, but i'm loving it. secondly, all of what i'm going to show you belongs to the amazing museums, archives and foundations that we partner with. none of this belongs to google. and finally, what you see behind me is available right now on your mobile phones, on your laptops.this is our current platform, where you can explore thousands of museums and objects at your fingertips, in extremely high-definition detail. the diversity of the content is what's amazing. if we just had european paintings, if we just had modern art, i think it gets a bit boring. for example, this month, we launched the "black history" channel with 82 curated exhibitions, which talk about arts and culture in that community. we also have some amazing objects from japan, centered around craftsmanship, called "made in japan." and one of my favorite exhibitions, which actually is the idea of my talk, is — i didn't expect to become a fan of japanese dolls. but i am, thanks to this exhibition, that has really taught me about the craftsmanship behind the soul of a japanese doll. trust me, it's very exciting. take my word for it.so, moving on swiftly. one quick thing i wanted to showcase in this platform, which you can share with your kids and your friends right now, is you can travel to all these amazing institutions virtually, as well. one of our recent ideas was with the guggenheim museum in new york, where you can get a taste of what it might feel like to actually be there. you can go to the ground floor and obviously, most of you, i assume, have been there. and you can see the architectural masterpiece that it is. but imagine this accessibility for a kid in bombay who's studying architecture, who hasn't had a chance to go to the guggenheim as yet. you can obviously look at objects in the guggenheim museum, you can obviously get into them and so on and so forth. there's a lot of information here.but this is not the purpose of my talk today. this exists right now. what we now have are the building blocks to a very exciting future, when it comes to arts and culture and accessibility to arts and culture. so i am joined today onstage by my good friend and artist in residence at our office in paris, cyril diagne, who is the professor of interactive design at ecal university in lausanne, switzerland. what cyril and our team of engineers have been doing is trying to find these connections and visualize a few of these.so i'm going to go quite quick now. this object you see behind me — oh, just clarification: always, seeing the real thing is better. in case people think i'm trying to replicate the real thing. so, moving on. this object you see behind me is the venus of berekhat ram. it's one of the oldest objects in the world, found in the golan heights around 233,000 years ago, and currently residing at the israel museum in jerusalem. it is also one of the oldest objects on our platform.so let's zoom. we start from this one object. what if we zoomed out and actually tried to experience our own cultural big bang? what might that look like? this is what we deal with on a daily basis at the cultural institute — over six million cultural artifacts curated and given to us by institutions, to actually make these connections. you can travel through time, you can understand more about our society through these. you can look at it from the perspective of our planet, and try to see how it might look without borders, if we just organized art and culture. we can also then plot it by time, which obviously, for the data geek in me, is very fascinating. you can spend hours looking at every decade and the contributions in that decade and in those years for art, history and cultures. we would love to spend hours showing you each and every decade, but we don't have the time right now. so you can go on your phone and actually do it yourself. but if you don't mind and can hold your applause till later, i don't want to run out of time, because i want to show you a lot of cool stuff.so, just very quickly: you can move on from here to another very interesting idea. beyond the pretty picture, beyond the nice visualization, what is the purpose, how is this useful? this next idea comes from discussions with curators that we've been having at museums, who, by the way, i've fallen in love with, because they dedicate their whole life to try to tell these stories. one of the curators told me, "amit, what would it be like if you could create a virtual curator's table where all these six million objects are displayed in a way for us to look at the connections between them?" you can spend a lot of time, trust me, looking at different objects and understanding where they come from. it's a crazy matrix experience. just moving on, let's take the world-famous vincent van gogh, who is very well-represented on this platform. thanks to the diversity of the institutions we have, we have over 211 high-definition, amazing artworks by this artist, now organized in one beautiful view. and as it resolves, and as cyril goes deeper, you can see all the self-portraits, you can see still life. but i just wanted to highlight one very quick example, which is very timely: "the bedroom." this is an artwork where three copies exist — one at the van gogh museum in amsterdam, one at the orsay in paris and one at the art institute of chicago, which, actually, currently is hosting a reunion of all three artworks physically, i think only for the second time ever. but, it is united digitally and virtually for anybody to look at in a very different way, and you won't get pushed in the line in the crowd. so let's take you and let's travel through "the bedroom" very quickly, so you can experience what we are doing for every single object. we want the image to speak as much as it can on a digital platform. and all you need is an internet connection and a computer and, cyril, if you can go deeper, quickly. i'm sorry, this is all live, so you have to give cyril a little bit of — and this is available for every object: modern art, contemporary art, renaissance — you name it, even sculpture.sometimes, you don't know what can attract you to an artwork or to a museum or to a cultural discovery. so for me, personally, it was quite a challenge because when i decided to make this my full-time job at google, my mother was not very supportive. i love my mother, but she thought i was wasting my life with this museum stuff. and for her, a museum is what you do when you go on vacation and you tick-mark and it's over, right? and it took around four and a half years for me to convince my lovely indian mother that actually, this is worthwhile. and the way i did it was, i realized one day that she loves gold. so i started showing her all objects that have the material gold in them. and the first thing my mom asks me is, "how can we buy these?" and obviously, my salary is not that high, so i was like, "we can't actually do that, mom. but you can explore them virtually." and so now my mom — every time i meet her, she asks me, "any more gold, any more silver in your project? can you show me?" and that's the idea i'm trying to illustrate. it does not matter how you get in, as long as you get in. once you get in, you're hooked.moving on from here very quickly, there is kind of a playful idea, actually, to illustrate the point of access, and i'm going to go quite quickly on this one. we all know that seeing the artwork in person is amazing. but we also know that most of us can't do it, and the ones that can afford to do it, it's complicated. so — cyril, can we load up our art trip, what do we call it? we don't have a good name for this. but essentially, we have around 1,000 amazing institutions, 68 countries. but let's start with rembrandt. we might have time for only one example. but thanks to the diversity, we've got around 500 amazing rembrandt object artworks from 46 institutions and 17 countries. let's say that on your next vacation, you want to go see every single one of them. that is your itinerary, you will probably travel 53,000 kilometers, visit around, i think, 46 institutions, and just fyi, you might release 10 tons of co2 emissions. but remember, it's art, so you can justify it, perhaps, in some way.moving on swiftly from here, is something a little bit more technical and more interesting. all that we've shown you so far uses metadata to make the connections. but obviously we have something cool nowadays that everyone likes to talk about, which is machine learning. so what we thought is, let's strip out all the metadata, let's look at what machine learning can do based purely on visual recognition of this entire collection. what we ended up with is this very interesting map, these clusters that have no reference point information, but has just used visuals to cluster things together. each cluster is an art to us by itself of discovery. but one of the clusters we want to show you very quickly is this amazing cluster of portraits that we found from museums around the world. if you could zoom in a little bit more, cyril. just to show you, you can just travel through portraits. and essentially, you can do nature, you can do horses and clusters galore.when we saw all these portraits, we were like, "hey, can we do something fun for kids, or can we do something playful to get people interested in portraits?" because i haven't really seen young kids really excited to go to a portrait gallery. i wanted to try to figure something out. so we created something called the portrait matcher. it's quite self-explanatory, so i'm just going to let cyril show his beautiful face. and essentially what's happening is, with the movement of his head, we are matching different portraits around the world from museums. and i don't know about you, but i've shown it to my nephew and sister, and the reaction is just phenomenal. all they ask me is, "when can we go see this?" and by the way, if we're nice, maybe, cyril, you can smile and find a happy one? oh, perfect. by the way, this is not rehearsed. congrats, cyril. great stuff. oh wow. ok, let's move on; otherwise, this will just take the whole time. so, art and culture can be fun also, right? for our last quick experiment — we call all of these "experiments" — our last quick experiment comes back to machine learning. we show you clusters, visual clusters, but what if we could ask the machine to also name these clusters? what if it could automatically tag them, using no actual metadata? so what we have is this kind of explorer, where we have managed to match, i think, around 4,000 labels. and we haven't really done anything special here, just fed the collection. and we found interesting categories. we can start with horses, a very straightforward category. you would expect to see that the machine has put images of horses, right? and it has, but you also notice, right over there, that it has a very abstract image that it has still managed to recognize and cluster as horses. we also have an amazing head in terms of a horse. and each one has the tags as to why it got categorized in this.so let's move to another one which i found very funny and interesting, because i don't understand how this category came up. it's called "lady in waiting." if, cyril, you do it very quickly, you will see that we have these amazing images of ladies, i guess, in waiting or posing. i don't really understand it. but i've been trying to ask my museum contacts, you know, "what is this? what's going on here?" and it's fascinating.coming back to gold very quickly, i wanted to search for gold and see how the machine tagged all the gold. but, actually, it doesn't tag it as gold. we are living in popular times. it tags it as "bling-bling." i'm being hard on cyril, because i'm moving too fast. essentially, here you have all the bling-bling of the world's museums organized for you.and finally, to end this talk and these experiments, what i hope you feel after this talk is happiness and emotion. and what would we see when we see happiness? if we actually look at all the objects that have been tagged under "happiness," you would expect happiness, i guess. but there was one that came up that was very fascinating and interesting, which was this artwork by douglas coupland, our friend and artist in residence as well, called, "i miss my pre-internet brain." i don't know why the machine feels like it misses its pre-internet brain and it's been tagged here, but it's a very interesting thought. i sometimes do miss my pre-internet brain, but not when it comes to exploring arts and culture online.so take out your phones, take out your computers, go visit museums. and just a quick call-out to all the amazing archivists, historians, curators, who are sitting in museums, preserving all this culture. and the least we can do is get our daily dose of art and culture for ourselves and our kids.thank you. <title = "The Chinese zodiac, explained">
<tags = "['china', 'economics', 'education', 'entrepreneur', 'family', 'identity', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Technologist, entrepreneur">
have you ever been asked by your chinese friend, "what is your zodiac sign?" don't think they are making small talk. if you say, "i'm a monkey," they immediately know you are either 24, 36, 48 or 60 years old. asking a zodiac sign is a polite way of asking your age.by revealing your zodiac sign, you are also being evaluated. judgments are being made about your fortune or misfortune, your personality, career prospects and how you will do in a given year. if you share you and your partner's animal signs, they will paint a picture in their mind about your private life. maybe you don't believe in the chinese zodiac. as a quarter of the world population is influenced by it, you'd be wise to do something about that.so what is the chinese zodiac, exactly? most westerners think of greco-roman zodiac, the signs divided into 12 months. the chinese zodiac is different. it's a 12-year cycle labeled with animals, starting with a rat and ending with a pig, and has no association with constellations. for example, if you were born in 1975, you are a rabbit. can you see your zodiac sign there? our chinese ancestors constructed a very complicated theoretical framework based on yin and yang, the five elements and the 12 zodiac animals. over thousands of years, this popular culture has affected people's major decisions, such as naming, marriage, giving birth and attitude towards each other. and some of the implications are quite amazing.the chinese believe certain animals get on better than the others. so parents choose specific years to give birth to babies, because they believe the team effort by the right combination of animals can give prosperity to families. we even refer to the zodiac when entering into romantic relations. i'm a pig; i should have perfect romance with tigers, goats and rabbits. chinese people believe some animals are natural enemies. as a pig, i need to be careful with a snake. raise your hand if you are a snake. let's have a chat later. we believe some animals are luckier than the others, such as the dragon. unlike the western tradition, the chinese dragon is a symbol for power, strength and wealth. it's everyone's dream to have a dragon baby. jack ma's parents must have been very proud. and they are not the only ones. in 2012, the year of the dragon, the birthrate in china, hong kong and taiwan increased by five percent. that means another one million more babies. with a traditional preference to baby boys, the boy-girl ratio that year was 120 to 100. when those dragon boys grow up, they will face much more severe competition in love and job markets.according to the bbc and the chinese government's press release, january 2015 saw a peak of cesarean sections. why? that was the last month for the year of the horse. it's not because they like horses so much, it's because they try to avoid having unlucky goat babies. if you are a goat, please don't feel bad. those are goat babies. they don't look like losers to me. tiger is another undesirable animal, due to its volatile temperament. many chinese regions saw a sharp decline of birthrate during those years. perhaps one should consider zodiac in reverse, as those tiger and goat babies will face much less competition. maybe they are the lucky ones. i went through the forbes top 300 richest people in the world, and it's interesting to see the most undesirable two animals, the goat and tiger, are at the top of the chart, even higher than the dragon. so maybe we should consider, maybe it's much better to have less competition.one last but interesting point: many chinese people make their investment decisions based on the zodiac sign index. although the belief and tradition of the zodiac sign has been over thousands of years, the trend of using it in making major decisions did not really happen until the past few decades. our ancestors were very busy surviving poverty, drought, famine, riot, disease and civil war. and finally, chinese people have the time, wealth and technology to create an ideal life they've always wanted. the collective decision made by 1.3 billion people has caused the fluctuation in economics and demand on everything, from health care and education to property and consumer goods. as china plays such an important role in the global economy and geopolitics, the decisions made based on the zodiac and other chinese traditions end up impacting everyone around the world.are there any monkeys here? 2016 is the year of the monkey. monkeys are clever, curious, creative and mischievous.thank you. <title = "How college loans exploit students for profit">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'big problems', 'choice', 'culture', 'economics', 'education', 'investment', 'society', 'work']">
<occupation = "Educator">
today 40 million americans are indebted for their passage to the new economy. too poor to pay their way through college, they now owe lenders more than one trillion us dollars. they do find what jobs they can get to pay off a debt that is secured on their person. in america, even a bankrupt gambler gets a second chance. but it is nearly impossible for an american to get discharged their student loan debts.once upon a time in america, going to college did not mean graduating with debt. my friend paul's father graduated from colorado state university on the gi bill. for his generation, higher education was free or almost free, because it was thought of as a public good. not anymore. when paul also graduated from colorado state university, he paid for his english degree by working part-time. 30 years ago, higher education tuition was affordable, reasonable, and what debts you accumulated, you paid off by graduation date. not anymore. paul's daughter followed in his footsteps, but with one difference: when she graduated five years ago, it was with a whopping debt.students like kate have to take on a loan because the cost of higher education has become unaffordable for many if not most american families. but so what? getting into debt to buy an expensive education is not all bad if you could pay it off with the increased income that you earned from it. but that's where the rubber meets the road. even a college grad earned 10 percent more in 2001 than she did in 2013.so ... tuition costs up, public funding down, family incomes diminished, personal incomes weak. is it any wonder that more than a quarter of those who must cannot make their student loan payments? the worst of times can be the best of times, because certain truths flash up in ways that you can't ignore. i want to speak of three of them today.1.2 trillion dollars of debts for diplomas make it abundantly obvious that higher education is a consumer product you can buy. all of us talk about education just as the economists do now, as an investment that you make to improve the human stock by training them for work. as an investment you make to sort and classify people so that employers can hire them more easily. the u.s. news & world report ranks colleges just as the consumer report rates washing machines. the language is peppered with barbarisms. teachers are called "service providers," students are called "consumers." sociology and shakespeare and soccer and science, all of these are "content."student debt is profitable. only not on you. your debt fattens the profit of the student loan industry. the two 800-pound gorillas of which — sallie mae and navient — posted last year a combined profit of 1.2 billion dollars. and just like home mortgages, student loans can be bundled and packaged and sliced and diced, and sold on wall street. and colleges and universities that invest in these securitized loans profit twice. once from your tuition, and then again from the interest on debt.with all that money to be made, are we surprised that some in the higher education business have begun to engage in false advertising, in bait and switch ... in exploiting the very ignorance that they pretend to educate?third: diplomas are a brand. many years ago my teacher wrote, "when students are treated as consumers, they're made prisoners of addiction and envy." just as consumers can be sold and resold upgraded versions of an iphone, so also people can be sold more and more education. college is the new high school, we already say that. but why stop there? people can be upsold on certifications and recertifications, master's degrees, doctoral degrees.higher education is also marketed as a status object. buy a degree, much like you do a lexus of a louis vuitton bag, to distinguish yourself from others. so you can be the object of envy of others. diplomas are a brand.but these truths are often times hidden by a very noisy sales pitch. there is not a day that goes by without some policy guy on television telling us, "a college degree is absolutely essential to get on that up escalator to a middle-class life." and the usual evidence offered is the college premium: a college grad who makes on average 56 percent more than a high school grad.let's look at that number more carefully, because on the face of it, it seems to belie the stories we all hear about college grads working as baristas and cashiers. of 100 people who enroll in any form of post-secondary education, 45 do not complete it in a timely fashion, for a number of reasons, including financial. of the 55 that do graduate, two will remain unemployed, and another 18 are underemployed. so, college grads earn more than high school grads, but does it pay for the exorbitant tuition and the lost wages while at college?now even economists admit going to college pays off for only those who complete it. but that's only because high school wages have been cut to the bone, for decades now. for decades, workers with a high school degree have been denied a fair share of what they have produced. and had they received as they should have, then going to college would have been a bad investment for many. college premium? i think it's a high school discount.two out of three people who enroll are not going to find an adequate job. and the future, for them, doesn't look particularly promising — in fact, it's downright bleak. and it is they who are going to suffer the most punishing forms of student debt. and it is they, curiously and sadly, who are marketed most loudly about this college premium thing. that's not just cynical marketing, that's cruel.so what do we do? what if students and parents treated higher education as a consumer product? everybody else seems to. then, like any other consumer product, you would demand to know what you're paying for. when you buy medicines, you get a list of side effects. when you buy a higher educational product, you should have a warning label that allows consumers to choose, make informed choices. when you buy a car, it tells you how many miles per gallon to expect. who knows what to expect from a degree say, in canadian studies. there is such a thing, by the way.what if there was an app for that? one that linked up the cost of a major to the expected income. let's call it income-based tuition or ibt. one of you make this. discover your reality. there are three advantages, three benefits to income-based tuition. any user can figure out how much money he or she will make from a given college and major. such informed users are unlikely to fall victim to the huckster's ploy, to the sales pitch. but also to choose wisely. why would anybody pay more for college than let's say, 15 percent of the additional income they earn?there's a second benefit to income-based tuition. by tying the cost to the income, college administrators would be forced to manage costs better, to find innovative ways to do so. for instance, all of you students here pay roughly the same tuition for every major. that is manifestly unfair, and should change. an engineering student uses more resources and facilities and labs and faculty than a philosophy student. but the philosophy student, as a consequence, is subsidizing the engineering student. who then, by the way, goes on and earns more money. why should two people buy the same product, pay the same, but one person receive half or a third of the service. in fact, college grads, some majors, pay 25 percent of their income servicing their student debt, while others pay five percent. that kind if inequity would end when majors are priced more correctly.now of course, all this data — and one of you is going to do this, right? all this data has to be well designed, maybe audited by public accounting firms to avoid statistical lies. we know about statistics, right?but be that as it may, the third and biggest benefit of income-based tuition, is it would free americans from the fear and the fact of financial ruin because they bought a defective product.perhaps, in time, young and old americans may rediscover, as the gentleman said earlier, their curiosity, their love of learning — begin to study what they love, love what they study, follow their passion ... getting stimulated by their intelligence, follow paths of inquiry that they really want to.after all, it was eric and kevin, two years ago, just exactly these kinds of young men, who prompted me and worked with me, and still do, in the study of indebted students in america.thank you for your attention. <title = "A highly scientific taxonomy of haters">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'activism', 'comedy', 'community', 'entertainment', 'humor', 'identity', 'religion', 'social change', 'society', 'terrorism']">
<occupation = "Comedian, filmmaker">
i'm an iranian-american muslim female, like all of you. and i'm also a social justice comedian, something that i insist is an actual job.to explain what that is, let me tell you how i got here. i've performed all over the country. and let me tell you, america is majestic, right? it's got breathtaking nature, waffle houses and diabetes as far as the eye can see. it is really something.now, the american population can be broken up into three main categories: there's mostly wonderful people, haters and florida. besides florida, the most troubling category here are the haters. they are a minority, but they overcompensate by being extra loud. they have the napoleon complex of demographics, and yes, some of the men do wear heels.as a social justice comedian, it's my goal to convert these haters, because they hate a lot of things, which leads to negative outcomes, like racism, violence and ted nugent. this is not an exhaustive list; i'm probably missing 3-7 items.but the point is, we have to reckon with the haters. but there's variance within this group and it's not efficient to go after all of them, right? so what i've done is created a highly scientific taxonomy of haters. i basically took all of the haters, i put them in a petri dish, like a scientist, and this is what i found. first off, we have the trolls. these are your garden-variety digital haters. they're the people who quit their jobs so they can post on youtube videos all day long. there's also the drive-by haters. now, these people will be at a stoplight, they'll wait for the light to turn green and when it does, they yell, "go back to your own country!" now back in the day, they would've actually gotten out of their cars and hated you to your face. but they just don't make them like they used to — which is another sign of the decline in america. the next category is the mission-oriented-bigot- whose-group-affiliation- gives-them-cover-for-hating hater. these guys like to hate via a seemingly nice organization, like a church or a nonprofit, and they oftentimes like to speak in an old-timey voice.but the group i'm most interested in is the swing hater. the swing hater is sister to the swing voter — they just can't decide! they're like ideological sluts who move from hating to not hating. and they do it because they don't have enough information. this is the group i like to target with social justice comedy. why comedy? because on a scale of comedy to brochure, the average american prefers comedy, as you can see from this graph. comedy is very popular. and by the way, this is a mathematically accurate graph, generated from fake numbers. now, the question is: why does social justice comedy work? because, first off, it makes you laugh. and when you're laughing, you enter into a state of openness. and in that moment of openness, a good social justice comedian can stick in a whole bunch of information, and if they're really skilled, a rectal exam. here are some ground rules for social justice comedy: first off, it's not partisan. this isn't political comedy, this is about justice, and no one is against justice. two, it's inviting and warm, it makes you feel like you're sitting inside of a burrito. three, it's funny but sneaky, like you could be hearing an interesting treatise on income inequality, that's encased in a really sophisticated poop joke. here's how i see social justice comedy working. a few years ago, i rounded up a bunch of muslim-american comedians — in a non-violent way — and we went around the country to places like alabama, arizona, tennessee, georgia — places where they love the muzzies — and we did stand-up shows. we called the tour "the muslims are coming!" we turned this into a movie, and then after the movie came out, a known hate group spent 300,000 dollars on an anti-muslim poster campaign with the mta — that's the new york city subway system. now, the posters were truly offensive, not to mentioned poorly designed — i mean, if you're going to be bigoted, you might as well use a better font. but we decided, why not launch our own poster campaign that says nice things about muslims, while promoting the movie. so myself and fellow comedian dean obeidallah decided to launch the fighting-bigotry- with-delightful-posters campaign. we raised the money, worked with the mta for over 5 months, got the posters approved, and two days after they were supposed to go up, the mta decided to ban the posters, citing political content.let's take a look at a couple of those posters. here's one. facts about muslims: muslims invented the concept of a hospital. ok. fact: grown-up muslims can do more push-ups than baby muslims. fact: muslims invented justin timberlake. let's take a look at another one. the ugly truth about muslims: they have great frittata recipes.now clearly, frittatas are considered political by the mta. either that, or the mere mention of muslims in a positive light was considered political — but it isn't. it's about justice. so we decided to change our fighting-bigortry- with-delightful-posters campaign and turn it into the fighting-bigotry- with-a-delightful-lawsuit campaign. so basically, what i'm saying is a couple of dirt-bag comedians took on a major new york city agency and the comedians won.(applause and cheers)thank you. victory was a very weird feeling. i was like, "is this what blonde girls feel like all the time? 'cause this is amazing!" here's another example. i'm asked everywhere i go: "why don't muslims denounce terrorism?" we do. but ok, i'll take the bait. so i decided to launch thedailydenouncer.com. it's a website that denounces terrorism every day of the week, while taking the weekends off. let's take a look at an example. they generally appear as single-panel cartoons, "i denounce terrorism! i also denounce people who never fill the paper tray!" the point of the website is that it denounces terrorism while recognizing that it's ridiculous that we have to constantly denounce terrorism.but if bigotry isn't your thing, social justice comedy is useful for all sorts of issues. for example, myself and fellow comedian lee camp went to the cayman islands to investigate offshore banking. now, the united states loses something like 300 billion dollars a year in these offshore tax havens. not to brag, but at the end of every month, i have something like 5-15 dollars in disposable income. so we walked into these banks in the cayman islands and asked if we could open up a bank account with eight dollars and 27 cents. the bank managers would indulge us for 30-45 seconds before calling security. security would come out, brandish their weapons, and then we would squeal with fear and run away, because — and this is the last rule of social justice comedy — sometimes it makes you want to take a dump in your pants.most of my work is meant to be fun. it's meant to generate a connection and laughter. but yes, sometimes i get run off the grounds by security. sometimes i get mean tweets and hate mail. sometimes i get voice mails saying that if i continue telling my jokes, they'll kill me and they'll kill my family. and those death threats are definitely not funny.but despite the occasional danger, i still think that social justice comedy is one of our best weapons. i mean, we've tried a lot of approaches to social justice, like war and competitive ice dancing. but still, a lot of things are still kind of awful. so i think it's time we try and tell a really good poop joke.thank you. <title = "3 reasons why we can win the fight against poverty">
<tags = "['Africa', 'activism', 'agriculture', 'community', 'farming', 'food', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'innovation', 'poverty', 'society']">
<occupation = "Anti-hunger activist">
i've been living in rural east africa for about 10 years, and i want to share a field perspective with you on global poverty. i believe that the greatest failure of the human race is the fact that we've left more than one billion of our members behind. hungry, extreme poverty: these often seem like gigantic, insurmountable problems, too big to solve. but as a field practitioner, i believe these are actually very solvable problems if we just take the right strategies.archimedes was an ancient greek thinker, and he taught us that if we lean on the right levers, we can move the world. in the fight against extreme poverty, i believe there are three powerful levers that we can lean on. this talk is all about those levers, and why they make poverty a winnable fight in our lifetimes.what is extreme poverty? when i first moved to rural east africa, i stayed overnight with a farm family. they were wonderful people. they invited me into their home. we sang songs together and ate a simple dinner. they gave me a blanket to sleep on the floor. in the morning, however, there was nothing to eat. and then at lunchtime, i watched with an increasingly sick feeling as the eldest girl in the family cooked porridge as a substitute for lunch. for that meal, every child drank one cup to survive. and i cannot tell you how ashamed i felt when they handed one of those cups to me, and i knew i had to accept their hospitality.children need food not only to survive but also to grow physically and mentally. every day they fail to eat, they lose a little bit of their future. amongst the extreme poor, one in three children are permanently stunted from a lifetime of not eating enough. when that's combined with poor access to health care, one in 10 extremely poor children die before they reach age five. and only one quarter of children complete high school because they lack school fees. hunger and extreme poverty curb human potential in every possible way. we see ourselves as a thinking, feeling and moral human race, but until we solve these problems for all of our members, we fail that standard, because every person on this planet matters. this child matters. these children matter. this girl matters.you know, we see things like this, and we're upset by them, but they seem like such big problems. we don't know how to take effective action. but remember our friend archimedes. global poverty has powerful levers. it's a problem like any other. i live and work in the field, and as a practitioner, i believe these are very solvable problems. so for the next 10 minutes, let's not be sad about the state of the world. let's engage our brains. let's engage our collective passion for problem-solving and figure out what those levers are.lever number one: most of the world's poor are farmers. think about how extraordinary this is. if this picture represents the world's poor, then more than half engage in farming as a major source of income. this gets me really excited. all of these people, one profession. think how powerful this is. when farmers become more productive, then more than half the world's poor earn more money and climb out of poverty. and it gets better. the product of farming is, of course, food. so when farmers become more productive, they earn more food, and they don't just help themselves, but they help to feed healthy communities and thriving economies. and when farmers become more productive, they reduce environmental pressure. we only have two ways we can feed the world: we can either make our existing farmland a lot more productive, or we can clear cut forest and savannah to make more farmland, which would be environmentally disastrous. farmers are basically a really important leverage point. when farmers become more productive, they earn more income, they climb out of poverty, they feed their communities and they reduce environmental land pressure. farmers stand at the center of the world.and not a farmer like this one, but rather this lady. most of the farmers i know are actually women. look at the strength and the will radiating from this woman. she is physically strong, mentally tough, and she will do whatever it takes to earn a better life for her children. if we're going to put the future of humanity in one person's hands, then i'm really glad it's her. there's just one problem: many smallholder farmers lack access to basic tools and knowledge. currently, they take a little bit of saved food grain from the prior year, they plant it in the ground and they till it with a manual hand hoe. these are tools and techniques that date to the bronze age, and it's why many farmers are still very poor.but good news, again. lever number two: humanity actually solved the problem of agricultural poverty a century ago. let me walk you through the three most basic factors in farming. first, hybrid seed is created when you cross two seeds together. if you naturally pollinate a high-yielding variety together with a drought-resistant variety, you get a hybrid that inherits positive traits from both of its parents. next, conventional fertilizer, if used responsibly, is environmentally sustainable. if you micro-dose just a pinch of fertilizer to a plant that's taller than i am, you unlock enormous yield gain. these are known as farm inputs. farm inputs need to be combined with good practice. when you space your seeds and plant with massive amounts of compost, farmers multiply their harvests. these proven tools and practices have more than tripled agricultural productivity in every major region of the world, moving mass numbers of people out of poverty. we just haven't finished delivering these things to everybody just yet, particularly in sub-saharan africa.so overall, this is amazing news. humanity actually solved agricultural poverty a century ago, in theory. we just haven't delivered these things to everybody just yet. in this century, the reason that people remain poor is because maybe they live in remote places. they lack access to these things. therefore, ending poverty is simply a matter of delivering proven goods and services to people. we don't need more genius types right now. the humble delivery guy is going to end global poverty in our lifetime.so these are the three levers, and the most powerful lever is simply delivery. wherever the world's companies, governments and nonprofits set up delivery networks for life-improving goods, we eliminate poverty.ok, so that sounds really nice in theory, but what about in practice? what do these delivery networks look like? i want to share the concrete example that i know best, my organization, one acre fund. we only serve the farmer, and our job is to provide her with the tools that she needs to succeed. we start off by delivering farm inputs to really rural places. now, this may appear initially very challenging, but it's pretty possible. let me show you. we buy farm inputs with the combined power of our farmer network, and store it in 20 warehouses like this. then, during input delivery, we rent hundreds of 10-ton trucks and send them out to where farmers are waiting in the field. they then get their individual orders and walk it home to their farms. it's kind of like amazon for rural farmers. importantly, realistic delivery also includes finance, a way to pay. farmers pay us little by little over time, covering most of our expenses. and then we surround all that with training. our rural field officers deliver practical, hands-on training to farmers in the field every two weeks.wherever we deliver our services, farmers use these tools to climb out of poverty. this is a farmer in our program, consolata. look at the pride on her face. she has achieved a modest prosperity that i believe is the human right of every hardworking person on the planet. today, i'm proud to say that we're serving about 400,000 farmers like consolata. the key to doing this is scalable delivery. in any given area, we hire a rural field officer who delivers our services to 200 farmers, on average, with more than 1,000 people living in those families. today, we have 2,000 of these rural field officers growing very quickly. this is our delivery army, and we're just one organization. there are many companies, governments and nonprofits that have delivery armies just like this. and i believe we stand at a moment in time where collectively, we are capable of delivering farm services to all farmers.let me show you how possible this is. this is a map of sub-saharan africa, with a map of the united states for scale. i chose sub-saharan africa because this is a huge delivery territory. it's very challenging. but we analyzed every 50-mile by 50-mile block on the continent, and we found that half of farmers live in just these shaded regions. that's a remarkably small area overall. if you were to lay these boxes next to each other within a map of the united states, they would only cover the eastern united states. you can order pizza anywhere in this territory and it'll arrive to your house hot, fresh and delicious. if america can deliver pizza to an area of this size, then africa's companies, governments and non-profits can deliver farm services to all of her farmers. this is possible.i'm going to wrap up by generalizing beyond just farming. in every field of human development, humanity has already invented effective tools to end poverty. we just need to deliver them. so again, in every area of human development, super-smart people a long time ago invented inexpensive, highly effective tools. humanity is armed to the teeth with simple, effective solutions to poverty. we just need to deliver these to a pretty small area. again using the map of sub-saharan africa as an example, remember that rural poverty is concentrated in these blue shaded areas. urban poverty is even more concentrated, in these green little dots. again, using a map of the united states for scale, this is what i would call a highly achievable delivery zone. in fact, for the first time in human history, we have a vast amount of delivery infrastructure available to us. the world's companies, governments and non-profits have delivery armies that are fully capable of covering this relatively small area. we just lack the will.if we are willing, every one of us has a role to play. we first need more people to pursue careers in human development, especially if you live in a developing nation. we need more front line health workers, teachers, farmer trainers, sales agents for life-improving goods. these are the delivery people that dedicate their careers to improving the lives of others. but we also need a lot of support roles. these are roles available at just my organization alone, and we're just one out of many. this may surprise you, but no matter what your technical specialty, there is a role for you in this fight. and no matter how logistically possible it is to end poverty, we need a lot more resources. this is our number one constraint. for private investors, we need a big expansion of venture capital, private equity, working capital, available in emerging markets. but there are also limits to what private business can accomplish. private businesses often struggle to profitably serve the extreme poor, so philanthropy still has a major role to play. anybody can give, but we need more leadership. we need more visionary philanthropists and global leaders who will take problems in human development and lead humanity to wipe them off the face of the planet. if you're interested in these ideas, check out this website.we need more leaders. humanity has put people on the moon. we've invented supercomputers that fit into our pockets and connect us with anybody on the planet. we've run marathons at a five-minute mile pace. we are an exceptional people. but we've left more than one billion of our members behind. until every girl like this one has an opportunity to earn her full human potential, we have failed to become a truly moral and just human race. logistically speaking, it's incredibly possible to end extreme poverty. we just need to deliver proven goods and services to everybody. if we have the will, every one of us has a role to play. let's deploy our time, our careers, our collective wealth. let us deliver an end to extreme poverty in this lifetime.thank you. <title = "The secret to effective nonviolent resistance">
<tags = "['big problems', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'military', 'nonviolence', 'protests', 'security', 'society', 'terrorism', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Peacemaker">
war has been a part of my life since i can remember. i was born in afghanistan, just six months after the soviets invaded, and even though i was too young to understand what was happening, i had a deep sense of the suffering and the fear around me.those early experiences had a major impact on how i now think about war and conflict. i learned that when people have a fundamental issue at stake, for most of them, giving in is not an option. for these types conflicts — when people's rights are violated, when their countries are occupied, when they're oppressed and humiliated — they need a powerful way to resist and to fight back. which means that no matter how destructive and terrible violence is, if people see it as their only choice, they will use it. most of us are concerned with the level of violence in the world. but we're not going to end war by telling people that violence is morally wrong. instead, we must offer them a tool that's at least as powerful and as effective as violence.this is the work i do. for the past 13 years, i've been teaching people in some of the most difficult situations around the world how they can use nonviolent struggle to conduct conflict. most people associate this type of action with gandhi and martin luther king. but people have been using nonviolent action for thousands of years. in fact, most of the rights that we have today in this country — as women, as minorities, as workers, as people of different sexual orientations and citizens concerned with the environment — these rights weren't handed to us. they were won by people who fought for them and who sacrificed for them. but because we haven't learned from this history, nonviolent struggle as a technique is widely misunderstood.i met recently with a group of ethiopian activists, and they told me something that i hear a lot. they said they'd already tried nonviolent action, and it hadn't worked. years ago they held a protest. the government arrested everyone, and that was the end of that. the idea that nonviolent struggle is equivalent to street protests is a real problem. because although protests can be a great way to show that people want change, on their own, they don't actually create change — at least change that is fundamental. powerful opponents are not going to give people what they want just because they asked nicely ... or even not so nicely. nonviolent struggle works by destroying an opponent, not physically, but by identifying the institutions that an opponent needs to survive, and then denying them those sources of power. nonviolent activists can neutralize the military by causing soldiers to defect. they can disrupt the economy through strikes and boycotts. and they can challenge government propaganda by creating alternative media.there are a variety of methods that can be used to do this. my colleague and mentor, gene sharp, has identified 198 methods of nonviolent action. and protest is only one. let me give you a recent example.until a few months ago, guatemala was ruled by corrupt former military officials with ties to organized crime. people were generally aware of this, but most of them felt powerless to do anything about it — until one group of citizens, just 12 regular people, put out a call on facebook to their friends to meet in the central plaza, holding signs with a message: "renuncia ya" — resign already. to their surprise, 30,000 people showed up. they stayed there for months as protests spread throughout the country. at one point, the organizers delivered hundreds of eggs to various government buildings with a message: "if you don't have the huevos" — the balls — "to stop corrupt candidates from running for office, you can borrow ours." president molina responded by vowing that he would never step down. and the activists realized that they couldn't just keep protesting and ask the president to resign. they needed to leave him no choice. so they organized a general strike, in which people throughout the country refused to work. in guatemala city alone, over 400 businesses and schools shut their doors. meanwhile, farmers throughout the country blocked major roads. within five days, the president, along with dozens of other government officials, resigned already. i've been greatly inspired by the creativity and bravery of people using nonviolent action in nearly every country in the world. for example, recently a group of activists in uganda released a crate of pigs in the streets. you can see here that the police are confused about what to do with them. the pigs were painted the color of the ruling party. one pig was even wearing a hat, a hat that people recognized. activists around the world are getting better at grabbing headlines, but these isolated actions do very little if they're not part of a larger strategy. a general wouldn't march his troops into battle unless he had a plan to win the war. yet this is how most of the world's nonviolent movements operate. nonviolent struggle is just as complex as military warfare, if not more. its participants must be well-trained and have clear objectives, and its leaders must have a strategy of how to achieve those objectives.the technique of war has been developed over thousands of years with massive resources and some of our best minds dedicated to understanding and improving how it works. meanwhile, nonviolent struggle is rarely systematically studied, and even though the number is growing, there are still only a few dozen people in the world who are teaching it. this is dangerous, because we now know that our old approaches of dealing with conflict are not adequate for the new challenges that we're facing.the us government recently admitted that it's in a stalemate in its war against isis. but what most people don't know is that people have stood up to isis using nonviolent action. when isis captured mosul in june 2014, they announced that they were putting in place a new public school curriculum, based on their own extremist ideology. but on the first day of school, not a single child showed up. parents simply refused to send them. they told journalists they would rather homeschool their children than to have them brainwashed.this is an example of just one act of defiance in just one city. but what if it was coordinated with the dozens of other acts of nonviolent resistance that have taken place against isis? what if the parents' boycott was part of a larger strategy to identify and cut off the resources that isis needs to function; the skilled labor needed to produce food; the engineers needed to extract and refine oil; the media infrastructure and communications networks and transportation systems, and the local businesses that isis relies on? it may be difficult to imagine defeating isis with action that is nonviolent. but it's time we challenge the way we think about conflict and the choices we have in facing it.here's an idea worth spreading: let's learn more about where nonviolent action has worked and how we can make it more powerful, just like we do with other systems and technologies that are constantly being refined to better meet human needs. it may be that we can improve nonviolent action to a point where it is increasingly used in place of war. violence as a tool of conflict could then be abandoned in the same way that bows and arrows were, because we have replaced them with weapons that are more effective. with human innovation, we can make nonviolent struggle more powerful than the newest and latest technologies of war. the greatest hope for humanity lies not in condemning violence but in making violence obsolete.thank you. <title = "This scientist makes ears out of apples">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'biotech', 'collaboration', 'creativity', 'design', 'exploration', 'future', 'hack', 'innovation', 'invention', 'materials', 'play', 'potential', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Biohacker">
i've got a confession. i love looking through people's garbage. now, it's not some creepy thing. i'm usually just looking for old electronics, stuff i can take to my workshop and hack. i do have a fetish for cd-rom drives. each one's got three different motors, so now you can build things that move. there's switches so you can turn things on and off. there's even a freaking laser, so you can make a cool robot into an awesome robot.now, i've built a lot of stuff out of garbage, and some of these things have even been kind of useful. but here's the thing, for me, garbage is just a chance to play, to be creative and build things to amuse myself. this is what i love doing, so i just made it part of my day job. i lead a university-based biological research lab, where we value curiosity and exploration above all else. we aren't focused on any particular problem, and we're not trying to solve any particular disease. this is just a place where people can come and ask fascinating questions and find answers. and i realized a long time ago that if i challenge people to build the equipment they need out of the garbage i find, it's a great way to foster creativity. and what happened was that artists and scientists from around the world started coming to my lab. and it's not just because we value unconventional ideas, it's because we test and validate them with scientific rigor.so one day i was hacking something, i was taking it apart, and i had this sudden idea: could i treat biology like hardware? could i dismantle a biological system, mix and match the parts and then put it back together in some new and creative way? my lab started working on this, and i want to show you the result.can any of you guys tell me what fruit this is?audience: apple!andrew pelling: that's right — it's an apple. now, i actually want you to notice as well that this is a lot redder than most apples. and that's because we grew human cells into it. we took a totally innocent macintosh apple, removed all the apple cells and dna and then implanted human cells. and what we're left with after removing all the apple cells is this cellulose scaffold. this is the stuff that gives plants their shape and texture. and these little holes that you can see, this is where all the apple cells used to be. so then we come along, we implant some mammalian cells that you can see in blue. what happens is, these guys start multiplying and they fill up this entire scaffold.as weird as this is, it's actually really reminiscent of how our own tissues are organized. and we found in our pre-clinical work that you can implant these scaffolds into the body, and the body will send in cells and a blood supply and actually keep these things alive. this is the point when people started asking me, "andrew, can you make body parts out of apples?" and i'm like, "you've come to the right place." i actually brought this up with my wife. she's a musical instrument maker, and she does a lot of wood carving for a living. so i asked her, "could you, like, literally carve some ears out of an apple for us?" and she did. so i took her ears to the lab. we then started preparing them. yeah, i know. it's a good lab, man. and then we grew cells on them. and this is the result.listen, my lab is not in the ear-manufacturing business. people have actually been working on this for decades. here's the issue: commercial scaffolds can be really expensive and problematic, because they're sourced from proprietary products, animals or cadavers. we used an apple and it cost pennies.what's also really cool here is it's not that hard to make these things. the equipment you need can be built from garbage, and the key processing step only requires soap and water. so what we did was put all the instructions online as open source. and then we founded a mission-driven company, and we're developing kits to make it easier for anyone with a sink and a soldering iron to make these things at home. what i'm really curious about is if one day, it will be possible to repair, rebuild and augment our own bodies with stuff we make in the kitchen.speaking of kitchens, here's some asparagus. they're tasty, and they make your pee smell funny. now, i was in my kitchen, and i was noticing that when you look down the stalks of these asparagus, what you can see are all these tiny little vessels. and when we image them in the lab, you can see how the cellulose forms these structures. this image reminds me of two things: our blood vessels and the structure and organization of our nerves and spinal cord.so here's the question: can we grow axons and neurons down these channels? because if we can, then maybe we can use asparagus to form new connections between the ends of damaged and severed nerves. or maybe even a spinal cord. don't get me wrong — this is exceptionally challenging and really hard work to do, and we are not the only ones working on this. but we are the only ones using asparagus. right now, we've got really promising pilot data. and we're working with tissue engineers and neurosurgeons to find out what's actually possible.so listen, all of the work i've shown you, the stuff that i've built that's all around me on this stage and the other projects my lab is involved in are all a direct result of me playing with your garbage. play — play is a key part of my scientific practice. it's how i train my mind to be unconventional and to be creative and to decide to make human apple ears.so, the next time any of you are looking at some old, broken-down, malfunctioning, piece-of-crap technology, i want you to think of me. because i want it. seriously, please find any way to get in touch with me, and let's see what we can build.thank you. <title = "The birth of virtual reality as an art form">
<tags = "['art', 'beauty', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'composing', 'entertainment', 'film', 'future', 'innovation', 'media', 'technology', 'virtual reality', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Immersive storyteller">
when i was a kid, i experienced something so powerful, i spent the rest of my life searching for it, and in all the wrong places. what i experienced wasn't virtual reality. it was music. and this is where the story begins.that's me, listening to the beatles' "white album." and the look on my face is the feeling that i've been searching for ever since. music goes straight to the emotional vein, into your bloodstream and right into your heart. it deepens every experience. fellas?(music)this is the amazing mckenzie stubbert and joshua roman. music — yeah.music makes everything have more emotional resonance. let's see how it does for this talk. the right piece of music at the right time fuses with us on a cellular level. when i hear that one song from that one summer with that one girl, i'm instantly transported back there again. hey, stacey.here's a part of the story, though, where i got a little greedy. i thought if i added more layers on top of the music, i could make the feelings even more powerful. so i got into directing music videos. this is what they looked like. that's my brother, jeff. sorry about this, jeff. here's me, just so we're even. incredible moves. should've been a dancer. these experiments grew, and in time, started to look more like this. in both, i'm searching for the same thing, though, to capture that lightning in a bottle. except, i'm not. adding moving pictures over the music added narrative dimension, yes, but never quite equated the power that just raw music had for me on its own. this is not a great thing to realize when you've devoted your life and professional career to becoming a music video director. i kept asking myself, did i take the wrong path? so i started thinking: if i could involve you, the audience, more, i might be able to make you feel something more as well.so aaron koblin and i began auditioning new technologies that could put more of you inside of the work, like your childhood home in "the wilderness downtown," your hand-drawn portraits, in "the johnny cash project," and your interactive dreams in "3 dreams of black." we were pushing beyond the screen, trying to connect more deeply to people's hearts and imaginations. but it wasn't quite enough. it still didn't have the raw experiential power of pure music for me.so i started chasing a new technology that i only had read about in science fiction. and after years of searching, i found a prototype. it was a project from nonny de la peña in mark bolas's lab in usc. and when i tried it, i knew i'd found it. i could taste the lightning. it was called virtual reality. this was it five years ago when i ran into it. this is what it looks like now.i quickly started building things in this new medium, and through that process we realized something: that vr is going to play an incredibly important role in the history of mediums. in fact, it's going to be the last one. i mean this because it's the first medium that actually makes the jump from our internalization of an author's expression of an experience, to our experiencing it firsthand. you look confused. i'll explain. don't worry. if we go back to the origins of mediums, by all best guesses, it starts around a fire, with a good story. our clan leader is telling us about how he hunted the woolly mammoth on the tundra that day. we hear his words and translate them into our own internal truths. the same thing happens when we look at the cave painting version of the story, the book about the mammoth hunt, the play, the radio broadcast, the television show or the movie. all of these mediums require what we call "suspension of disbelief," because there's a translation gap between the reality of the story and our consciousness interpreting the story into our reality. i'm using the word "consciousness" as a feeling of reality that we get from our senses experiencing the world around us.virtual reality bridges that gap. now, you are on the tundra hunting with the clan leader. or you are the clan leader. or maybe you're even the woolly mammoth. so here's what special about vr. in all other mediums, your consciousness interprets the medium. in vr, your consciousness is the medium. so the potential for vr is enormous. but where are we now? what is the current state of the art? well, we are here. we are the equivalent of year one of cinema. this is the lumière brothers film that allegedly sent a theater full of people running for their lives as they thought a train was coming toward them. similar to this early stage of this medium, in vr, we also have to move past the spectacle and into the storytelling. it took this medium decades to figure out its preferred language of storytelling, in the form of a feature film. in vr today, we're more learning grammar than writing language.we've made 15 films in the last year at our vr company, vrse, and we've learned a few things. we found that we have a unique, direct path into your senses, your emotions, even your body.so let me show you some things. for the purpose of this demo, we're going to take every direction that you could possibly look, and stretch it into this giant rectangle. ok, here we go.so, first: camera movement is tricky in vr. done wrong, it can actually make you sick. we found if you move the camera at a constant speed in a straight line, you can actually get away with it, though. the first day in film school, they told me you have to learn every single rule before you can break one. we have not learned every single rule. we've barely learned any at all, but we're already trying to break them to see what kind of creative things we can accomplish. in this shot here, where we're moving up off the ground, i added acceleration. i did that because i wanted to give you a physical sensation of moving up off the ground. in vr, i can give that to you.(music)not surprisingly, music matters a lot in this medium as well. it guides us how to feel. in this project we made with the new york times, zach richter and our friend, jr, we take you up in a helicopter, and even though you're flying 2,000 feet above manhattan, you don't feel afraid. you feel triumphant for jr's character. the music guides you there.(music)contrary to popular belief, there is composition in virtual reality, but it's completely different than in film, where you have a rectangular frame. composition is now where your consciousness exists and how the world moves around you. in this film, "waves of grace," which was a collaboration between vrse, the united nations, gabo arora, and imraan ismail, we also see the changing role of the close-up in virtual reality. a close-up in vr means you're actually close up to someone. it brings that character inside of your personal space, a space that we'd usually reserve for the people that we love. and you feel an emotional closeness to the character because of what you feel to be a physical closeness.directing vr is not like directing for the rectangle. it's more of a choreography of the viewer's attention. one tool we can use to guide your attention is called "spatialized sound." i can put a sound anywhere in front of you, to left or right, even behind you, and when you turn your head, the sound will rotate accordingly. so i can use that to direct your attention to where i want you to see. next time you hear someone singing over your shoulder, it might be bono. vr makes us feel like we are part of something. for most of human history, we lived in small family units. we started in caves, then moved to clans and tribes, then villages and towns, and now we're all global citizens. but i believe that we are still hardwired to care the most about the things that are local to us. and vr makes anywhere and anyone feel local. that's why it works as an empathy machine. our film "clouds over sidra" takes you to a syrian refugee camp, and instead of watching a story about people over there, it's now a story about us here.but where do we go from here? the tricky thing is that with all previous mediums, the format is fixed at its birth. film has been a sequence of rectangles, from muybridge and his horses to now. the format has never changed. but vr as a format, as a medium, isn't complete yet. it's not using physical celluloid or paper or tv signals. it actually employs what we use to make sense of the world. we're using your senses as the paints on the canvas, but only two right now. eventually, we can see if we will have all of our human senses employed, and we will have agency to live the story in any path we choose. and we call it virtual reality right now, but what happens when we move past simulated realities? what do we call it then? what if instead of verbally telling you about a dream, i could let you live inside that dream? what if instead of just experiencing visiting some reality on earth, you could surf gravitational waves on the edge of a black hole, or create galaxies from scratch, or communicate with each other not using words but using our raw thoughts? that's not a virtual reality anymore. and honestly i don't know what that's called. but i hope you see where we're going.but here i am, intellectualizing a medium i'm saying is experiential. so let's experience it. in your hands, you hopefully hold a piece of cardboard. let's open the flap. tap on the power button to unlock the phone. for the people watching at home, we're going to put up a card right now to show you how to download this experience on your phone yourself, and even get a google cardboard of your own to try it with. we played in cardboard boxes as kids, and as adults, i'm hoping we can all find a little bit of that lightning by sticking our head in one again. you're about to participate in the largest collective vr viewing in history. and in that classic old-timey style of yesteryear, we're all going to watch something at the exact same time, together. let's hope it works. what's the countdown look like? i can't see.audience: ...15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1(birds singing)(train engine)audience: (shreiks)(video) jr: let me tell you how i shot the cover of the new york times magazine, "walking new york." i just got strapped on outside the helicopter, and i had to be perfectly vertical so i could grab it. and when i was perfectly above — you know, with the wind, we had to redo it a few times — then i kept shooting.(video) woman's voice: dear lord, protect us from evil, for you are the lord, the light. you who gave us life took it away. let your will be done. please bring peace to the many who have lost loved ones. help us to live again.(music)(video) (children's voices)child's voice: there are more kids in zaatari than adults right now. sometimes i think we are the ones in charge.chris milk: how was it? that was a cheap way of getting you to do a standing ovation. i just made you all stand. i knew you'd applaud at the end. i believe that everyone on earth needs to experience what you just experienced. that way we can collectively start to shape this, not as a tech platform but as a humanity platform. and to that end, in november of last year, the new york times and vrse made a vr project called "the displaced." it launched with one million google cardboards sent out to every sunday subscriber with their newspaper. but a funny thing happened that sunday morning. a lot of people got them that were not the intended recipients on the mailing label. and we started seeing this all over instagram. look familiar?music led me on a path of searching for what seemed like the unattainable for a very long time. now, millions of kids just had the same formative experience in their childhood that i had in mine. only i think this one surpasses it. let's see where this leads them.thank you. <title = "How better tech could protect us from distraction">
<tags = "['Internet', 'choice', 'communication', 'design', 'future', 'innovation', 'interface design', 'motivation', 'potential', 'product design', 'social media', 'technology', 'web']">
<occupation = "Design thinker">
what does it mean to spend our time well? i spend a lot of my time thinking about how to spend my time. probably too much — i probably obsess over it. my friends think i do. but i feel like i kind of have to, because these days, it feels like little bits of my time kind of slip away from me, and when that happens, it feels like parts of my life are slipping away.specifically, it feels like little bits of my time get slipped away to various things like this, like technology — i check things. i'll give you an example. if this email shows up — how many of you have gotten an email like this, right? i've been tagged in a photo. when this appears, i can't help but click on it right now. right? because, like, what if it's a bad photo? so i have to click it right now. but i'm not just going to click "see photo," what i'm actually going to do is spend the next 20 minutes. but the worst part is that i know this is what's going to happen, and even knowing that's what's going to happen doesn't stop me from doing it again the next time. or i find myself in a situation like this, where i check my email and i pull down to refresh, but the thing is that 60 seconds later, i'll pull down to refresh again. why am i doing this? this doesn't make any sense.but i'll give you a hint why this is happening. what do you think makes more money in the united states than movies, game parks and baseball combined? slot machines. how can slot machines make all this money when we play with such small amounts of money? we play with coins. how is this possible? well, the thing is ... my phone is a slot machine. every time i check my phone, i'm playing the slot machine to see, what am i going to get? what am i going to get? every time i check my email, i'm playing the slot machine, saying, "what am i going to get?" every time i scroll a news feed, i'm playing the slot machine to see, what am i going to get next? and the thing is that, again, knowing exactly how this works — and i'm a designer, i know exactly how the psychology of this works, i know exactly what's going on — but it doesn't leave me with any choice, i still just get sucked into it.so what are we going to do? because it leaves us with this all-or-nothing relationship with technology, right? you're either on, and you're connected and distracted all the time, or you're off, but then you're wondering, am i missing something important? in other words, you're either distracted or you have fear of missing out. right?so we need to restore choice. we want to have a relationship with technology that gives us back choice about how we spend time with it, and we're going to need help from designers, because knowing this stuff doesn't help. we're going to need design help. so what would that look like?so let's take an example that we all face: chat — text messaging. so let's say there's two people. nancy's on the left and she's working on a document, and john's on the right. and john suddenly remembers, "i need to ask nancy for that document before i forget." so when he sends her that message, it blows away her attention.that's what we're doing all the time, bulldozing each other's attention, left and right. and there's serious cost to this, because every time we interrupt each other, it takes us about 23 minutes, on average, to refocus our attention. we actually cycle through two different projects before we come back to the original thing we were doing. this is gloria mark's research combined with microsoft research, that showed this. and her research also shows that it actually trains bad habits. the more interruptions we get externally, it's conditioning and training us to interrupt ourselves. we actually self-interrupt every three-and-a-half minutes.this is crazy. so how do we fix this? because nancy and john are in this all-or-nothing relationship. nancy might want to disconnect, but then she'd be worried: what if i'm missing something important?design can fix this problem. let's say you have nancy again on the left, john on the right. and john remembers, "i need to send nancy that document." except this time, nancy can mark that she's focused. let's say she drags a slider and says, "i want to be focused for 30 minutes," so — bam — she's focused. now when john wants to message her, he can get the thought off of his mind — because he has a need, he has this thought, and he needs to dump it out before he forgets. except this time, it holds the messages so that nancy can still focus, but john can get the thought off of his mind.but this only works if one last thing is true, which is that nancy needs to know that if something is truly important, john can still interrupt. but instead of having constant accidental or mindless interruptions, we're now only creating conscious interruptions,so we're doing two things here. we're creating a new choice for both nancy and john, but there's a second, subtle thing we're doing here, too. and it's that we're changing the question we're answering. instead of the goal of chat being: "let's design it so it's easy to send a message" — that's the goal of chat, it should be really easy to send a message to someone — we change the goal to something deeper and a human value, which is: "let's create the highest possible quality communication in a relationship between two people. so we upgraded the goal.now, do designers actually care about this? do we want to have conversations about what these deeper human goals are? well, i'll tell you one story. a little over a year ago, i got to help organize a meeting between some of technology's leading designers and thich nhat hanh. thich nhat hanh is an international spokesperson for mindfulness meditation. and it was the most amazing meeting. you have to imagine — picture a room — on one side of the room, you have a bunch of tech geeks; on the other side of the room, you have a bunch of long brown robes, shaved heads, buddhist monks. and the questions were about the deepest human values, like what does the future of technology look like when you're designing for the deepest questions and the deepest human values? and our conversation centered on listening more deeply to what those values might be. he joked in our conversation that what if, instead of a spell check, you had a compassion check, meaning, you might highlight a word that might be accidentally abrasive — perceived as abrasive by someone else.so does this kind of conversation happen in the real world, not just in these design meetings? well, the answer is yes, and one of my favorites is couchsurfing. if you didn't know, couchsurfing is a website that matches people who are looking for a place to stay with a free couch, from someone who's trying to offer it.so, great service — what would their design goal be? what are you designing for if you work at couchsurfing? well, you would think it's to match guests with hosts. right? that's a pretty good goal. but that would kind of be like our goal with messaging before, where we're just trying to deliver a message.so what's the deeper, human goal? well, they set their goal as the need to create lasting, positive experiences and relationships between people who've never met before. and the most amazing thing about this was in 2007, they introduced a way to measure this, which is incredible. i'll tell you how it works. for every design goal you have, you have to have a corresponding measurement to know how you're doing — a way of measuring success. so what they do is, let's say you take two people who meet up, and they take the number of days those two people spent together, and then they estimate how many hours were in those days — how many hours did those two people spend together? and then after they spend that time together, they ask both of them: how positive was your experience? did you have a good experience with this person that you met? and they subtract from those positive hours the amount of time people spent on the website, because that's a cost to people's lives. why should we value that as success? and what you were left with is something they refer to as "net orchestrated conviviality," or, really, just a net "good times" created. the net hours that would have never existed, had couchsurfing not existed.can you imagine how inspiring it would be to come to work every day and measure your success in the actual net new contribution of hours in people's lives that are positive, that would have never existed if you didn't do what you were about to do at work today? can you imagine a whole world that worked this way?can you imagine a social network that — let's say you care about cooking, and it measured its success in terms of cooking nights organized and the cooking articles that you were glad you read, and subtracted from that the articles you weren't glad you read or the time you spent scrolling that you didn't like? imagine a professional social network that, instead of measuring its success in terms of connections created or messages sent, instead measured its success in terms of the job offers that people got that they were excited to get. and subtracted the amount of time people spent on the website. or imagine dating services, like maybe tinder or something, where instead of measuring the number of swipes left and right people did, which is how they measure success today, instead measured the deep, romantic, fulfilling connections people created. whatever that was for them, by the way.but can you imagine a whole world that worked this way, that was helping you spend your time well? now to do this you also need a new system, because you're probably thinking, today's internet economy — today's economy in general — is measured in time spent. the more users you have, the more usage you have, the more time people spend, that's how we measure success.but we've solved this problem before. we solved it with organic, when we said we need to value things a different way. we said this is a different kind of food. so we can't compare it just based on price; this is a different category of food. we solved it with leed certification, where we said this is a different kind of building that stood for different values of environmental sustainability.what if we had something like that for technology? what if we had something whose entire purpose and goal was to help create net new positive contributions to human life? and what if we could value it a different way, so it would actually work? imagine you gave this different premium shelf space on app stores. imagine you had web browsers that helped route you to these kinds of design products. can you imagine how exciting it would be to live and create that world?we can create this world today. company leaders, all you have to do — only you can prioritize a new metric, which is your metric for net positive contribution to human life. and have an honest conversation about that. maybe you're not doing so well to start with, but let's start that conversation.designers, you can redefine success; you can redefine design. arguably, you have more power than many people in your organization to create the choices that all of us live by. maybe like in medicine, where we have a hippocratic oath to recognize the responsibility and this higher value that we have to treat patients. what if designers had something like that, in terms of this new kind of design?and users, for all of us — we can demand technology that works this way. now it may seem hard, but mcdonald's didn't have salads until the consumer demand was there. walmart didn't have organic food until the consumer demand was there. we have to demand this new kind of technology. and we can do that. and doing that would amount to shifting from a world that's driven and run entirely on time spent, to world that's driven by time well spent.i want to live in this world, and i want this conversation to happen. let's start that conversation now.thank you. <title = "I survived a terrorist attack. Here's what I learned">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'activism', 'community', 'compassion', 'death', 'global issues', 'humanity', 'identity', 'life', 'social change', 'society', 'terrorism', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Survivor and activist">
i could never have imagined that a 19-year-old suicide bomber would actually teach me a valuable lesson. but he did. he taught me to never presume anything about anyone you don't know.on a thursday morning in july 2005, the bomber and i, unknowingly, boarded the same train carriage at the same time, standing, apparently, just feet apart. i didn't see him. actually, i didn't see anyone. you know not to look at anyone on the tube, but i guess he saw me. i guess he looked at all of us, as his hand hovered over the detonation switch. i've often wondered: what was he thinking? especially in those final seconds.i know it wasn't personal. he didn't set out to kill or maim me, gill hicks. i mean — he didn't know me. no. instead, he gave me an unwarranted and an unwanted label. i had become the enemy. to him, i was the "other," the "them," as opposed to "us." the label "enemy" allowed him to dehumanize us. it allowed him to push that button. and he wasn't selective. twenty-six precious lives were taken in my carriage alone, and i was almost one of them.in the time it takes to draw a breath, we were plunged into a darkness so immense that it was almost tangible; what i imagine wading through tar might be like. we didn't know we were the enemy. we were just a bunch of commuters who, minutes earlier, had followed the tube etiquette: no direct eye contact, no talking and absolutely no conversation.but in the lifting of the darkness, we were reaching out. we were helping each other. we were calling out our names, a little bit like a roll call, waiting for responses."i'm gill. i'm here. i'm alive. ok.""i'm gill. here. alive. ok."i didn't know alison. but i listened for her check-ins every few minutes. i didn't know richard. but it mattered to me that he survived.all i shared with them was my first name. they didn't know that i was a head of a department at the design council. and here is my beloved briefcase, also rescued from that morning. they didn't know that i published architecture and design journals, that i was a fellow of the royal society of arts, that i wore black — still do — that i smoked cigarillos. i don't smoke cigarillos anymore. i drank gin and i watched ted talks, of course, never dreaming that one day i would be standing, balancing on prosthetic legs, giving a talk.i was a young australian woman doing extraordinary things in london. and i wasn't ready for that all to end. i was so determined to survive that i used my scarf to tie tourniquets around the tops of my legs, and i just shut everything and everyone out, to focus, to listen to myself, to be guided by instinct alone. i lowered my breathing rate. i elevated my thighs. i held myself upright and i fought the urge to close my eyes.i held on for almost an hour, an hour to contemplate the whole of my life up until this point. perhaps i should have done more. perhaps i could have lived more, seen more. maybe i should have gone running, dancing, taken up yoga. but my priority and my focus was always my work. i lived to work. who i was on my business card mattered to me. but it didn't matter down in that tunnel.by the time i felt that first touch from one of my rescuers, i was unable to speak, unable to say even a small word, like "gill." i surrendered my body to them. i had done all i possibly could, and now i was in their hands.i understood just who and what humanity really is, when i first saw the id tag that was given to me when i was admitted to hospital. and it read: "one unknown estimated female." one unknown estimated female. those four words were my gift. what they told me very clearly was that my life was saved, purely because i was a human being. difference of any kind made no difference to the extraordinary lengths that the rescuers were prepared to go to save my life, to save as many unknowns as they could, and putting their own lives at risk. to them, it didn't matter if i was rich or poor, the color of my skin, whether i was male or female, my sexual orientation, who i voted for, whether i was educated, if i had a faith or no faith at all. nothing mattered other than i was a precious human life.i see myself as a living fact. i am proof that unconditional love and respect can not only save, but it can transform lives. here is a wonderful image of one of my rescuers, andy, and i taken just last year. ten years after the event, and here we are, arm in arm.throughout all the chaos, my hand was held tightly. my face was stroked gently. what did i feel? i felt loved. what's shielded me from hatred and wanting retribution, what's given me the courage to say: this ends with me is love. i was loved.i believe the potential for widespread positive change is absolutely enormous because i know what we're capable of. i know the brilliance of humanity. so this leaves me with some pretty big things to ponder and some questions for us all to consider: is what unites us not far greater than what can ever divide? does it have to take a tragedy or a disaster for us to feel deeply connected as one species, as human beings? and when will we embrace the wisdom of our era to rise above mere tolerance and move to an acceptance for all who are only a label until we know them?thank you. <title = "Why genetic research must be more diverse">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'activism', 'big problems', 'community', 'genetics', 'health', 'health care', 'inequality', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'science', 'society']">
<occupation = "Geneticist, indigenous rights activist">
as a little hawaiian, my mom and auntie always told me stories about kalaupapa — the hawaiian leper colony surrounded by the highest sea cliffs in the world — and father damien, the belgian missionary who gave his life for the hawaiian community. as a young nurse, my aunt trained the nuns caring for the remaining lepers almost a 100 years after father damien died of leprosy. i remember stories she told about traveling down switchback cliff paths on a mule, while my uncle played her favorite hula songs on the ukulele all the way down to kalaupapa.you see, as a youngster, i was always curious about a few things. first was why a belgian missionary chose to live in complete isolation in kalaupapa, knowing he would inevitably contract leprosy from the community of people he sought to help. and secondly, where did the leprosy bacteria come from? and why were kānaka maoli, the indigenous people of hawaii, so susceptible to developing leprosy, or "mai pake?"this got my curious about what makes us unique as hawaiians — namely, our genetic makeup. but it wasn't until high school, through the human genome project, that i realized i wasn't alone in trying to connect our unique genetic ancestry to our potential health, wellness and illness. you see, the 2.7 billion-dollar project promised an era of predictive and preventative medicine based on our unique genetic makeup. so to me it always seemed obvious that in order to achieve this dream, we would need to sequence a diverse cohort of people to obtain the full spectrum of human genetic variation on the planet. that's why 10 years later, it continues to shock me, knowing that 96 percent of genome studies associating common genetic variation with specific diseases have focused exclusively on individuals of european ancestry.now you don't need a phd to see that that leaves four percent for the rest of diversity. and in my own searching, i've discovered that far less than one percent have actually focused on indigenous communities, like myself. so that begs the question: who is the human genome project actually for? just like we have different colored eyes and hair, we metabolize drugs differently based on the variation in our genomes. so how many of you would be shocked to learn that 95 percent of clinical trials have also exclusively featured individuals of european ancestry?this bias and systematic lack of engagement of indigenous people in both clinical trials and genome studies is partially the result of a history of distrust. for example, in 1989, researchers from arizona state university obtained blood samples from arizona's havasupai tribe, promising to alleviate the burden of type 2 diabetes that was plaguing their community, only to turn around and use those exact same samples — without the havasupai's consent — to study rates of schizophrenia, inbreeding, and challenge the havasupai's origin story. when the havasupai found out, they sued successfully for $700,000, and they banned asu from conducting research on their reservation. this culminated in a sort of domino effect with local tribes in the southwest — including the navajo nation, one of the largest tribes in the country — putting a moratorium on genetic research.now despite this history of distrust, i still believe that indigenous people can benefit from genetic research. and if we don't do something soon, the gap in health disparities is going to continue to widen. hawaii, for example, has the longest life expectancy on average of any state in the us, yet native hawaiians like myself die a full decade before our non-native counterparts, because we have some of the highest rates of type 2 diabetes, obesity, and the number one and number two killers in the us: cardiovascular disease and cancer.so how do we ensure the populations of people that need genome sequencing the most are not the last to benefit? my vision is to make genetic research more native, to indigenize genome sequencing technology.traditionally, genomes are sequenced in laboratories. here's an image of your classic genome sequencer. it's huge. it's the size of a refrigerator. there's this obvious physical limitation. but what if you could sequence genomes on the fly? what if you could fit a genome sequencer in your pocket? this nanopore-based sequencer is one 10,000th the size of your traditional genome sequencer. it doesn't have the same physical limitations, in that it's not tethered to a lab bench with extraneous cords, large vats of chemicals or computer monitors. it allows us to de-black box genome sequencing technology development in a way that's immersive and collaborative, activating and empowering indigenous communities ... as citizen scientists.100 years later in kalaupapa, we now have the technology to sequence leprosy bacteria in real time, using mobile genome sequencers, remote access to the internet and cloud computation. but only if that's what hawaiian people want. in our space, on our terms.indigenomics is about science for the people by the people. we'll be starting with a tribal consultation resource, focused on educating indigenous communities on the potential use and misuse of genetic information. eventually we'd like to have our own indigenomics research institute to conduct our own experiments and educate the next generation of indigenous scientists.in the end, indigenous people need to be partners in and not subjects of genetic research. and for those on the outside, just as father damien did, the research community needs to immerse itself in indigenous culture or die trying.mahalo. <title = "How to fix a broken education system ... without any more money">
<tags = "['children', 'communication', 'community', 'education', 'global development', 'global issues', 'india', 'policy', 'potential']">
<occupation = "Education innovator">
so we all have our own biases. for example, some of us tend to think that it's very difficult to transform failing government systems. when we think of government systems, we tend to think that they're archaic, set in their ways, and perhaps, the leadership is just too bureaucratic to be able to change things. well, today, i want to challenge that theory. i want to tell you a story of a very large government system that has not only put itself on the path of reform but has also shown fairly spectacular results in less than three years.this is what a classroom in a public school in india looks like. there are 1 million such schools in india. and even for me, who's lived in india all her life, walking into one of these schools is fairly heartbreaking. by the time kids are 11, 50 percent of them have fallen so far behind in their education that they have no hope to recover. 11-year-olds cannot do simple addition, they cannot construct a grammatically correct sentence. these are things that you and i would expect an 8-year-old to be able to do. by the time kids are 13 or 14, they tend to drop out of schools. in india, public schools not only offer free education — they offer free textbooks, free workbooks, free meals, sometimes even cash scholarships. and yet, 40 percent of the parents today are choosing to pull their children out of public schools and pay out of their pockets to put them in private schools. as a comparison, in a far richer country, the us, that number is only 10 percent. that's a huge statement on how broken the indian public education system is.so it was with that background that i got a call in the summer of 2013 from an absolutely brilliant lady called surina rajan. she was, at that time, the head of the department of school education in a state called haryana in india. so she said to us, "look, i've been heading this department for the last two years. i've tried a number of things, and nothing seems to work. can you possibly help?"let me describe haryana a little bit to you. haryana is a state which has 30 million people. it has 15,000 public schools and 2 million plus children in those public schools. so basically, with that phone call, i promised to help a state and system which was as large as that of peru or canada transform itself. as i started this project, i was very painfully aware of two things. one, that i had never done anything like this before. and two, many others had, perhaps without too much success. as my colleagues and i looked across the country and across the world, we couldn't find another example that we could just pick up and replicate in haryana. we knew that we had to craft our own journey.but anyway, we jumped right in and as we jumped in, all sorts of ideas started flying at us. people said, "let's change the way we recruit teachers, let's hire new principals and train them and send them on international learning tours, let's put technology inside classrooms." by the end of week one, we had 50 ideas on the table, all amazing, all sounded right. there was no way we were going to be able to implement 50 things.so i said, "hang on, stop. let's first at least decide what is it we're trying to achieve." so with a lot of push and pull and debate, haryana set itself a goal which said: by 2020, we want 80 percent of our children to be at grade-level knowledge. now the specifics of the goal don't matter here, but what matters is how specific the goal is. because it really allowed us to take all those ideas which were being thrown at us and say which ones we were going to implement. does this idea support this goal? if yes, let's keep it. but if it doesn't or we're not sure, then let's put it aside. as simple as it sounds, having a very specific goal right up front has really allowed us to be very sharp and focused in our transformation journey. and looking back over the last two and a half years, that has been a huge positive for us.so we had the goal, and now we needed to figure out what are the issues, what is broken. before we went into schools, a lot of people told us that education quality is poor because either the teachers are lazy, they don't come into schools, or they're incapable, they actually don't know how to teach. well, when we went inside schools, we found something completely different. on most days, most teachers were actually inside schools. and when you spoke with them, you realized they were perfectly capable of teaching elementary classes. but they were not teaching. i went to a school where the teachers were getting the construction of a classroom and a toilet supervised. i went to another school where two of the teachers had gone to a nearby bank branch to deposit scholarship money into kids' accounts. at lunchtime, most teachers were spending all of their time getting the midday meal cooking, supervised and served to the students.so we asked the teachers, "what's going on, why are you not teaching?" and they said, "this is what's expected of us. when a supervisor comes to visit us, these are exactly the things that he checks. has the toilet been made, has the meal been served. when my principal goes to a meeting at headquarters, these are exactly the things which are discussed."you see, what had happened was, over the last two decades, india had been fighting the challenge of access, having enough schools, and enrollment, bringing children into the schools. so the government launched a whole host of programs to address these challenges, and the teachers became the implicit executors of these programs. not explicitly, but implicitly. and now, what was actually needed was not to actually train teachers further or to monitor their attendance but to tell them that what is most important is for them to go back inside classrooms and teach. they needed to be monitored and measured and awarded on the quality of teaching and not on all sorts of other things.so as we went through the education system, as we delved into it deeper, we found a few such core root causes which were determining, which were shaping how people behaved in the system. and we realized that unless we change those specific things, we could do a number of other things. we could train, we could put technology into schools, but the system wouldn't change. and addressing these non-obvious core issues became a key part of the program.so, we had the goal and we had the issues, and now we needed to figure out what the solutions were. we obviously did not want to recreate the wheel, so we said, "let's look around and see what we can find." and we found these beautiful, small pilot experiments all over the country and all over the world. small things being done by ngos, being done by foundations. but what was also interesting was that none of them actually scaled. all of them were limited to 50, 100 or 500 schools. and here, we were looking for a solution for 15,000 schools.so we looked into why, if these things actually work, why don't they actually scale? what happens is that when a typical ngo comes in, they not only bring in their expertise but they also bring in additional resources. so they might bring in money, they might bring in people, they might bring in technology. and in the 50 or 100 schools that they actually operate in, those additional resources actually create a difference. but now imagine that the head of this ngo goes to the head of the school education department and says, "hey, now let's do this for 15,000 schools." where is that guy or girl going to find the money to actually scale this up to 15,000 schools? he doesn't have the additional money, he doesn't have the resources. and hence, innovations don't scale. so right at the beginning of the project, what we said was, "whatever we have to do has to be scalable, it has to work in all 15,000 schools." and hence, it has to work within the existing budgets and resources that the state actually has. much easier said than done. i think this was definitely the point in time when my team hated me. we spent a lot of long hours in office, in cafés, sometimes even in bars, scratching out heads and saying, "where are the solutions, how are we going to solve this problem?"in the end, i think we did find solutions to many of the issues. i'll give you an example. in the context of effective learning, one of the things people talk about is hands-on learning. children shouldn't memorize things from books, they should do activities, and that's a more effective way to learn. which basically means giving students things like beads, learning rods, abacuses. but we did not have the budgets to give that to 15,000 schools, 2 million children. we needed another solution. we couldn't think of anything. one day, one of our team members went to a school and saw a teacher pick up sticks and stones from the garden outside and take them into the classroom and give them to the students. that was a huge eureka moment for us. so what happens now in the textbooks in haryana is that after every concept, we have a little box which are instructions for the teachers which say, "to teach this concept, here's an activity that you can do. and by the way, in order to actually do this activity, here are things that you can use from your immediate environment, whether it be the garden outside or the classroom inside, which can be used as learning aids for kids." and we see teachers all over haryana using lots of innovative things to be able to teach students. so in this way, whatever we designed, we were actually able to implement it across all 15,000 schools from day one.now, this brings me to my last point. how do you implement something across 15,000 schools and 100,000 teachers? the department used to have a process which is very interesting. i like to call it "the chain of hope." they would write a letter from the headquarters and send it to the next level, which was the district offices. they would hope that in each of these district offices, an officer would get the letter, would open it, read it and then forward it to the next level, which was the block offices. and then you would hope that at the block office, somebody else got the letter, opened it, read it and forwarded it eventually to the 15,000 principals. and then one would hope that the principals got the letter, received it, understood it and started implementing it. it was a little bit ridiculous. now, we knew technology was the answer, but we also knew that most of these schools don't have a computer or email. however, what the teachers do have are smartphones. they're constantly on sms, on facebook and on whatsapp.so what now happens in haryana is, all principals and teachers are divided into hundreds of whatsapp groups and anytime something needs to be communicated, it's just posted across all whatsapp groups. it spreads like wildfire. you can immediately check who has received it, who has read it. teachers can ask clarification questions instantaneously. and what's interesting is, it's not just the headquarters who are answering these questions. another teacher from a completely different part of the state will stand up and answer the question. everybody's acting as everybody's peer group, and things are getting implemented. so today, when you go to a school in haryana, things look different. the teachers are back inside classrooms, they're teaching. often with innovative techniques. when a supervisor comes to visit the classroom, he or she not only checks the construction of the toilet but also what is the quality of teaching. once a quarter, all students across the state are assessed on their learning outcomes and schools which are doing well are rewarded. and schools which are not doing so well find themselves having difficult conversations. of course, they also get additional support to be able to do better in the future. in the context of education, it's very difficult to see results quickly.when people talk about systemic, large-scale change, they talk about periods of 7 years and 10 years. but not in haryana. in the last one year, there have been three independent studies, all measuring student learning outcomes, which indicate that something fundamental, something unique is happening in haryana. learning levels of children have stopped declining, and they have started going up. haryana is one of the few states in the country which is showing an improvement, and certainly the one that is showing the fastest rate of improvement. these are still early signs, there's a long way to go, but this gives us a lot of hope for the future. i recently went to a school, and as i was leaving, i ran into a lady, her name was parvati, she was the mother of a child, and she was smiling. and i said, "why are you smiling, what's going on?" and she said, "i don't know what's going on, but what i do know is that my children are learning, they're having fun, and for the time being, i'll stop my search for a private school to send them to."so i go back to where i started: can government systems transform? i certainly believe so. i think if you give them the right levers, they can move mountains.thank you. <title = "Who are you, really? The puzzle of personality">
<tags = "['TED Books', 'communication', 'humanity', 'humor', 'identity', 'introvert', 'personality', 'psychology', 'self']">
<occupation = "Personality researcher">
what an intriguing group of individuals you are ... to a psychologist. i've had the opportunity over the last couple of days of listening in on some of your conversations and watching you interact with each other. and i think it's fair to say, already, that there are 47 people in this audience, at this moment, displaying psychological symptoms i would like to discuss today. and i thought you might like to know who you are. but instead of pointing at you, which would be gratuitous and intrusive, i thought i would tell you a few facts and stories, in which you may catch a glimpse of yourself.i'm in the field of research known as personality psychology, which is part of a larger personality science which spans the full spectrum, from neurons to narratives. and what we try to do, in our own way, is to make sense of how each of us — each of you — is, in certain respects, like all other people, like some other people and like no other person.now, already you may be saying of yourself, "i'm not intriguing. i am the 46th most boring person in the western hemisphere." or you may say of yourself, "i am intriguing, even if i am regarded by most people as a great, thundering twit." but it is your self-diagnosed boringness and your inherent "twitiness" that makes me, as a psychologist, really fascinated by you. so let me explain why this is so.one of the most influential approaches in personality science is known as trait psychology, and it aligns you along five dimensions which are normally distributed, and that describe universally held aspects of difference between people. they spell out the acronym ocean. so, "o" stands for "open to experience," versus those who are more closed. "c" stands for "conscientiousness," in contrast to those with a more lackadaisical approach to life. "e" — "extroversion," in contrast to more introverted people. "a" — "agreeable individuals," in contrast to those decidedly not agreeable. and "n" — "neurotic individuals," in contrast to those who are more stable.all of these dimensions have implications for our well-being, for how our life goes. and so we know that, for example, openness and conscientiousness are very good predictors of life success, but the open people achieve that success through being audacious and, occasionally, odd. the conscientious people achieve it through sticking to deadlines, to persevering, as well as having some passion. extroversion and agreeableness are both conducive to working well with people. extroverts, for example, i find intriguing. with my classes, i sometimes give them a basic fact that might be revealing with respect to their personality: i tell them that it is virtually impossible for adults to lick the outside of their own elbow. did you know that? already, some of you have tried to lick the outside of your own elbow. but extroverts amongst you are probably those who have not only tried, but they have successfully licked the elbow of the person sitting next to them. those are the extroverts.let me deal in a bit more detail with extroversion, because it's consequential and it's intriguing, and it helps us understand what i call our three natures. first, our biogenic nature — our neurophysiology. second, our sociogenic or second nature, which has to do with the cultural and social aspects of our lives. and third, what makes you individually you — idiosyncratic — what i call your "idiogenic" nature.let me explain. one of the things that characterizes extroverts is they need stimulation. and that stimulation can be achieved by finding things that are exciting: loud noises, parties and social events here at ted — you see the extroverts forming a magnetic core. they all gather together. and i've seen you. the introverts are more likely to spend time in the quiet spaces up on the second floor, where they are able to reduce stimulation — and may be misconstrued as being antisocial, but you're not necessarily antisocial. it may be that you simply realize that you do better when you have a chance to lower that level of stimulation.sometimes it's an internal stimulant, from your body. caffeine, for example, works much better with extroverts than it does introverts. when extroverts come into the office at nine o'clock in the morning and say, "i really need a cup of coffee," they're not kidding — they really do. introverts do not do as well, particularly if the tasks they're engaged in — and they've had some coffee — if those tasks are speeded, and if they're quantitative, introverts may give the appearance of not being particularly quantitative. but it's a misconstrual.so here are the consequences that are really quite intriguing: we're not always what seem to be, and that takes me to my next point. i should say, before getting to this, something about sexual intercourse, although i may not have time. and so, if you would like me to — yes, you would? ok. there are studies done on the frequency with which individuals engage in the conjugal act, as broken down by male, female; introvert, extrovert. so i ask you: how many times per minute — oh, i'm sorry, that was a rat study — how many times per month do introverted men engage in the act? 3.0. extroverted men? more or less? yes, more. 5.5 — almost twice as much. introverted women: 3.1. extroverted women? frankly, speaking as an introverted male, which i will explain later — they are heroic. 7.5. they not only handle all the male extroverts, they pick up a few introverts as well. we communicate differently, extroverts and introverts. extroverts, when they interact, want to have lots of social encounter punctuated by closeness. they'd like to stand close for comfortable communication. they like to have a lot of eye contact, or mutual gaze. we found in some research that they use more diminutive terms when they meet somebody. so when an extrovert meets a charles, it rapidly becomes "charlie," and then "chuck," and then "chuckles baby." whereas for introverts, it remains "charles," until he's given a pass to be more intimate by the person he's talking to. we speak differently. extroverts prefer black-and-white, concrete, simple language. introverts prefer — and i must again tell you that i am as extreme an introvert as you could possibly imagine — we speak differently. we prefer contextually complex, contingent, weasel-word sentences — more or less. as it were. not to put too fine a point upon it — like that.when we talk, we sometimes talk past each other. i had a consulting contract i shared with a colleague who's as different from me as two people can possibly be. first, his name is tom. mine isn't. secondly, he's six foot five. i have a tendency not to be. and thirdly, he's as extroverted a person as you could find. i am seriously introverted. i overload so much, i can't even have a cup of coffee after three in the afternoon and expect to sleep in the evening.we had seconded to this project a fellow called michael. and michael almost brought the project to a crashing halt. so the person who seconded him asked tom and me, "what do you make of michael?" well, i'll tell you what tom said in a minute. he spoke in classic "extrovert-ese." and here is how extroverted ears heard what i said, which is actually pretty accurate. i said, "well michael does have a tendency at times of behaving in a way that some of us might see as perhaps more assertive than is normally called for." tom rolled his eyes and he said, "brian, that's what i said: he's an asshole!" now, as an introvert, i might gently allude to certain "assholic" qualities in this man's behavior, but i'm not going to lunge for the a-word. but the extrovert says, "if he walks like one, if he talks like one, i call him one." and we go past each other.now is this something that we should be heedful of? of course. it's important that we know this. is that all we are? are we just a bunch of traits? no, we're not. remember, you're like some other people and like no other person. how about that idiosyncratic you? as elizabeth or as george, you may share your extroversion or your neuroticism. but are there some distinctively elizabethan features of your behavior, or georgian of yours, that make us understand you better than just a bunch of traits? that make us love you? not just because you're a certain type of person.i'm uncomfortable putting people in pigeonholes. i don't even think pigeons belong in pigeonholes. so what is it that makes us different? it's the doings that we have in our life — the personal projects. you have a personal project right now, but nobody may know it here. it relates to your kid — you've been back three times to the hospital, and they still don't know what's wrong. or it could be your mom. and you'd been acting out of character. these are free traits. you're very agreeable, but you act disagreeably in order to break down those barriers of administrative torpor in the hospital, to get something for your mom or your child.what are these free traits? they're where we enact a script in order to advance a core project in our lives. and they are what matters. don't ask people what type you are; ask them, "what are your core projects in your life?" and we enact those free traits. i'm an introvert, but i have a core project, which is to profess. i'm a professor. and i adore my students, and i adore my field. and i can't wait to tell them about what's new, what's exciting, what i can't wait to tell them about. and so i act in an extroverted way, because at eight in the morning, the students need a little bit of humor, a little bit of engagement to keep them going in arduous days of study.but we need to be very careful when we act protractedly out of character. sometimes we may find that we don't take care of ourselves. i find, for example, after a period of pseudo-extroverted behavior, i need to repair somewhere on my own. as susan cain said in her "quiet" book, in a chapter that featured the strange canadian professor who was teaching at the time at harvard, i sometimes go to the men's room to escape the slings and arrows of outrageous extroverts. i remember one particular day when i was retired to a cubicle, trying to avoid overstimulation. and a real extrovert came in beside me — not right in my cubicle, but in the next cubicle over — and i could hear various evacuatory noises, which we hate — even our own, that's why we flush during as well as after. and then i heard this gravelly voice saying, "hey, is that dr. little?" if anything is guaranteed to constipate an introvert for six months, it's talking on the john. that's where i'm going now. don't follow me.thank you. <title = "What can we learn from shortcuts?">
<tags = "['architecture', 'cities', 'community', 'design', 'environment', 'potential', 'product design', 'public spaces', 'society', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Designer, venturer">
when we're designing new products, services or businesses, the only time you'll know if they're any good, if the designs are good, is to see how they're used in the real world, in context.i'm reminded of that every time i walk past highbury fields in north london. it's absolutely beautiful. there's a big open green space. there's georgian buildings around the side. but then there's this mud trap that cuts across the middle. people clearly don't want to walk all the way around the edge. instead, they want to take the shortcut, and that shortcut is self-reinforcing.now, this shortcut is called a desire path, and it's often the path of least resistance. i find them fascinating, because they're often the point where design and user experience diverge.now at this point, i should apologize, because you guys are going to start seeing these everywhere. but today, i'm going to pick three i find interesting and share what actually it reminds me about launching new products and services. the first is in the capital city of brazil — brasilia. and it reminds me that sometimes, you have to just focus on designing for a real need at low friction. now, brasilia is fascinating. it was designed by niemeyer in the '50s. it was the golden age of flying, so he laid it out like a plane, as you can see there. slightly worryingly, he put most of the important government buildings in the cockpit. but if you zoom in, in the very center of brasilia, just where the point is there, you see it's littered with desire paths. they're absolutely everywhere.now, they thought that they had future-proofed this design. they thought in the future we wouldn't need to walk anywhere — we'd be able to drive — so there was little need for walkways or pavements. but as you can see, there's a real need. these are very dangerous desire paths. if we just pick one, in the middle, you can see it crosses 15 lanes of traffic. it won't surprise you guys that brasilia has five times the pedestrian accident rate of your average us city. people are resourceful. they'll always find the low-friction route to save money, save time.not all these desire paths are dangerous, i was reminded flying here when i was in heathrow. many of us get frustrated when we're confronted with the obligatory walk through duty-free. it was amazing to me how many people refused to take the long, meandering path to the left, and just cut through to the right, cut through the desire path.the question that's interesting is: what do designers think when they see our behavior here? do they think we're stupid? do they think we're lazy? or do they accept that this is the only truth? this is their product. we're effectively co-designing their product. so our job is to design for real needs at low friction, because if you don't, the customer will, anyway.the second desire path i wanted to share is at the university of california. and it reminds me that sometimes the best way to come up with a great design is just to launch it. now, university campuses are fantastic for spotting desire paths. i think it's because students are always late and they're pretty smart. so they're dashing to lectures. they'll always find the shortcut. and the designers here knew that. so they built the buildings and then they waited a few months for the paths to form. they then paved them.  incredibly smart approach. in fact, often, just launching the straw man of a service can teach you what people really want.for example, ayr muir in boston knew he wanted to open a restaurant. but where should it be? what should the menu be? he launched a service, in this case a food truck, and he changed the location each day. he'd write a different menu on the side in a whiteboard marker to figure out what people wanted. he now has a chain of restaurants. so it can be incredibly efficient to launch something to spot the desire paths.the third and final desire path i wanted to share with you is the unih. it reminds me that the world's in flux, and we have to respond to those changes. so as you'll guess, this is a hospital. i've marked for you on the left the oncology department. the patients would usually stay in the hotels down on the bottom right. this was a patient-centered organization, so they laid on cars for their patients. but what they realized when they started offering chemotherapy is the patients rarely wanted to get in cars. they were too nauseous, so they'd walk back to their hotels. this desire path that you see diagonally, formed. the patients even called it "the chemo trail." now, when the hospital saw this originally, they tried to lay turf back over it, ignore it. but after a while, they realized it was an important need they were meeting for their patients, so they paved it.and i think our job is often to pave these emerging desire paths. if we look back at the one in north london again, that desire path hasn't always been there. the reason it sprung up is people were traveling to the mighty arsenal football club stadium on game days, from the underground station you see on the bottom right. so you see the desire path. if we just wind the clock back a few years, when the stadium was being constructed, there is no desire path.so our job is to watch for these desire paths emerging, and, where appropriate, pave them, as someone did here. someone installed a barrier, people started walking across and round the bottom as you see, and they paved it. but i think this is a wonderful reminder as well, that, actually, the world is in flux. it's constantly changing, because if you look at the top of this image, there's another desire path forming.so these three desire paths remind me we need to design for real human needs. i think empathy for what your customers want is probably the biggest leading indicator of business success. design for real needs and design them in low friction, because if you don't offer them in low friction, someone else will, often the customer.secondly, often the best way to learn what people really want is to launch your service. the answer is rarely inside the building. get out there and see what people really want.and finally, in part because of technology, the world is incredibly flux at the moment. it's changing constantly. these desire paths are going to spring up faster than ever. our job is to pick the appropriate ones and pave over them.thank you very much. <title = "How a blind astronomer found a way to hear the stars">
<tags = "['Blindness', 'astronomy', 'collaboration', 'data', 'disability', 'energy', 'exploration', 'hearing', 'innovation', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Sonic astrophysicist">
once there was a star. like everything else, she was born; grew to be around 30 times the mass of our sun and lived for a very long time. exactly how long, people cannot really tell. just like everything in life, she reached the end of her regular star days when her heart, the core of her life, exhausted its fuel. but that was no end.she transformed into a supernova, and in the process releasing a tremendous amount of energy, outshining the rest of the galaxy and emitting, in one second, the same amount of energy our sun will release in 10 days. and she evolved into another role in our galaxy.supernova explosions are very extreme. but the ones that emit gamma rays are even more extreme. in the process of becoming a supernova, the interior of the star collapses under its own weight and it starts rotating ever faster, like an ice skater when pulling their arms in close to their body. in that way, it starts rotating very fast and it increases, powerfully, its magnetic field. the matter around the star is dragged around, and some energy from that rotation is transferred to that matter and the magnetic field is increased even further. in that way, our star had extra energy to outshine the rest of the galaxy in brightness and gamma ray emission.my star, the one in my story, became what is known as a magnetar. and just for your information, the magnetic field of a magnetar is 1,000 trillion times the magnetic field of earth. the most energetic events ever measured by astronomers carry the name gamma-ray bursts because we observe them as bursts most or explosions, most strongly measured as gamma-ray light. our star, like the one in our story that became a magnetar, is detected as a gamma-ray burst during the most energetic portion of the explosion. yet, even though gamma-ray bursts are the strongest events ever measured by astronomers, we cannot see them with our naked eye. we depend, we rely on other methods in order to study this gamma-ray light. we cannot see them with our naked eye. we can only see an itty bitty, tiny portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that we call visible light. and beyond that, we rely on other methods.yet as astronomers, we study a wider range of light and we depend on other methods to do that. on the screen, it may look like this. you're seeing a plot. that is a light curve. it's a plot of intensity of light over time. it is a gamma-ray light curve. sighted astronomers depend on this kind of plot in order to interpret how this light intensity changes over time. on the left, you will be seeing the light intensity without a burst, and on the right, you will be seeing the light intensity with the burst.early during my career, i could also see this kind of plot. but then, i lost my sight. i completely lost my sight because of extended illness, and with it, i lost the opportunity to see this plot and the opportunity to do my physics. it was a very strong transition for me in many ways. and professionally, it left me without a way to do my science. i longed to access and scrutinize this energetic light and figure out the astrophysical cause. i wanted to experience the spacious wonder, the excitement, the joy produced by the detection of such a titanic celestial event.i thought long and hard about it, when i suddenly realized that all a light curve is, is a table of numbers converted into a visual plot. so along with my collaborators, we worked really hard and we translated the numbers into sound. i achieved access to the data, and today i'm able to do physics at the level of the best astronomer, using sound. and what people have been able to do, mainly visually, for hundreds of years, now i do it using sound. listening to this gamma-ray burst that you're seeing on the — (applause continues)thank you.listening to this burst that you're seeing on the screen brought something to the ear beyond the obvious burst. now i'm going to play the burst for you. it's not music, it's sound.(digital beeping sounds)this is scientific data converted into sound, and it's mapped in pitch. the process is called sonification.so listening to this brought something to the ear besides the obvious burst. when i examine the very strong low-frequency regions, or bass line — i'm zooming into the bass line now. we noted resonances characteristic of electrically charged gasses like the solar wind. and i want you to hear what i heard. you will hear it as a very fast decrease in volume. and because you're sighted, i'm giving you a red line indicating what intensity of light is being converted into sound.(digital hum and whistling sound)the (whistles) is frogs at home, don't pay attention to that. (digital hum and whistling sound)i think you heard it, right?so what we found is that the bursts last long enough in order to support wave resonances, which are things caused by exchanges of energy between particles that may have been excited, that depend on the volume. you may remember that i said that the matter around the star is dragged around? it transmits power with frequency and field distribution determined by the dimensions. you may remember that we were talking about a super-massive star that became a very strong magnetic field magnetar. if this is the case, then outflows from the exploding star may be associated with this gamma-ray burst.what does that mean? that star formation may be a very important part of these supernova explosions. listening to this very gamma-ray burst brought us to the notion that the use of sound as an adjunctive visual display may also support sighted astronomers in the search for more information in the data. simultaneously, i worked on analyzing measurements from other telescopes, and my experiments demonstrated that when you use sound as an adjunctive visual display, astronomers can find more information in this now more accessible data set. this ability to transform data into sound gives astronomy a tremendous power of transformation. and the fact that a field that is so visual may be improved in order to include anyone with interest in understanding what lies in the heavens is a spirit-lifter.when i lost my sight, i noticed that i didn't have access to the same amount and quality of information a sighted astronomer had. it was not until we innovated with the sonification process that i regained the hope to be a productive member of the field that i had worked so hard to be part of.yet, information access is not the only area in astronomy where this is important. the situation is systemic and scientific fields are not keeping up. the body is something changeable — anyone may develop a disability at any point. let's think about, for example, scientists that are already at the top of their careers. what happens to them if they develop a disability? will they feel excommunicated as i did? information access empowers us to flourish. it gives us equal opportunities to display our talents and choose what we want to do with our lives, based on interest and not based on potential barriers. when we give people the opportunity to succeed without limits, that will lead to personal fulfillment and prospering life. and i think that the use of sound in astronomy is helping us to achieve that and to contribute to science.while other countries told me that the study of perception techniques in order to study astronomy data is not relevant to astronomy because there are no blind astronomers in the field, south africa said, "we want people with disabilities to contribute to the field." right now, i'm working at the south african astronomical observatory, at the office of astronomy for development. there, we are working on sonification techniques and analysis methods to impact the students of the athlone school for the blind. these students will be learning radio astronomy, and they will be learning the sonification methods in order to study astronomical events like huge ejections of energy from the sun, known as coronal mass ejections. what we learn with these students — these students have multiple disabilities and coping strategies that will be accommodated — what we learn with these students will directly impact the way things are being done at the professional level. i humbly call this development. and this is happening right now.i think that science is for everyone. it belongs to the people, and it has to be available to everyone, because we are all natural explorers. i think that if we limit people with disabilities from participating in science, we'll sever our links with history and with society. i dream of a level scientific playing field, where people encourage respect and respect each other, where people exchange strategies and discover together. if people with disabilities are allowed into the scientific field, an explosion, a huge titanic burst of knowledge will take place, i am sure.(digital beeping sounds)that is the titanic burst.thank you.thank you. <title = "How computers are learning to be creative">
<tags = "['AI', 'algorithm', 'art', 'beauty', 'brain', 'collaboration', 'demo', 'future', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'machine learning', 'science', 'science and art', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Software architect">
so, i lead a team at google that works on machine intelligence; in other words, the engineering discipline of making computers and devices able to do some of the things that brains do. and this makes us interested in real brains and neuroscience as well, and especially interested in the things that our brains do that are still far superior to the performance of computers.historically, one of those areas has been perception, the process by which things out there in the world — sounds and images — can turn into concepts in the mind. this is essential for our own brains, and it's also pretty useful on a computer. the machine perception algorithms, for example, that our team makes, are what enable your pictures on google photos to become searchable, based on what's in them. the flip side of perception is creativity: turning a concept into something out there into the world. so over the past year, our work on machine perception has also unexpectedly connected with the world of machine creativity and machine art.i think michelangelo had a penetrating insight into to this dual relationship between perception and creativity. this is a famous quote of his: "every block of stone has a statue inside of it, and the job of the sculptor is to discover it." so i think that what michelangelo was getting at is that we create by perceiving, and that perception itself is an act of imagination and is the stuff of creativity.the organ that does all the thinking and perceiving and imagining, of course, is the brain. and i'd like to begin with a brief bit of history about what we know about brains. because unlike, say, the heart or the intestines, you really can't say very much about a brain by just looking at it, at least with the naked eye. the early anatomists who looked at brains gave the superficial structures of this thing all kinds of fanciful names, like hippocampus, meaning "little shrimp." but of course that sort of thing doesn't tell us very much about what's actually going on inside.the first person who, i think, really developed some kind of insight into what was going on in the brain was the great spanish neuroanatomist, santiago ramón y cajal, in the 19th century, who used microscopy and special stains that could selectively fill in or render in very high contrast the individual cells in the brain, in order to start to understand their morphologies. and these are the kinds of drawings that he made of neurons in the 19th century.this is from a bird brain. and you see this incredible variety of different sorts of cells, even the cellular theory itself was quite new at this point. and these structures, these cells that have these arborizations, these branches that can go very, very long distances — this was very novel at the time. they're reminiscent, of course, of wires. that might have been obvious to some people in the 19th century; the revolutions of wiring and electricity were just getting underway. but in many ways, these microanatomical drawings of ramón y cajal's, like this one, they're still in some ways unsurpassed.we're still more than a century later, trying to finish the job that ramón y cajal started. these are raw data from our collaborators at the max planck institute of neuroscience. and what our collaborators have done is to image little pieces of brain tissue. the entire sample here is about one cubic millimeter in size, and i'm showing you a very, very small piece of it here. that bar on the left is about one micron. the structures you see are mitochondria that are the size of bacteria. and these are consecutive slices through this very, very tiny block of tissue. just for comparison's sake, the diameter of an average strand of hair is about 100 microns. so we're looking at something much, much smaller than a single strand of hair.and from these kinds of serial electron microscopy slices, one can start to make reconstructions in 3d of neurons that look like these. so these are sort of in the same style as ramón y cajal. only a few neurons lit up, because otherwise we wouldn't be able to see anything here. it would be so crowded, so full of structure, of wiring all connecting one neuron to another.so ramón y cajal was a little bit ahead of his time, and progress on understanding the brain proceeded slowly over the next few decades. but we knew that neurons used electricity, and by world war ii, our technology was advanced enough to start doing real electrical experiments on live neurons to better understand how they worked. this was the very same time when computers were being invented, very much based on the idea of modeling the brain — of "intelligent machinery," as alan turing called it, one of the fathers of computer science.warren mcculloch and walter pitts looked at ramón y cajal's drawing of visual cortex, which i'm showing here. this is the cortex that processes imagery that comes from the eye. and for them, this looked like a circuit diagram. so there are a lot of details in mcculloch and pitts's circuit diagram that are not quite right. but this basic idea that visual cortex works like a series of computational elements that pass information one to the next in a cascade, is essentially correct.let's talk for a moment about what a model for processing visual information would need to do. the basic task of perception is to take an image like this one and say, "that's a bird," which is a very simple thing for us to do with our brains. but you should all understand that for a computer, this was pretty much impossible just a few years ago. the classical computing paradigm is not one in which this task is easy to do.so what's going on between the pixels, between the image of the bird and the word "bird," is essentially a set of neurons connected to each other in a neural network, as i'm diagramming here. this neural network could be biological, inside our visual cortices, or, nowadays, we start to have the capability to model such neural networks on the computer. and i'll show you what that actually looks like.so the pixels you can think about as a first layer of neurons, and that's, in fact, how it works in the eye — that's the neurons in the retina. and those feed forward into one layer after another layer, after another layer of neurons, all connected by synapses of different weights. the behavior of this network is characterized by the strengths of all of those synapses. those characterize the computational properties of this network. and at the end of the day, you have a neuron or a small group of neurons that light up, saying, "bird."now i'm going to represent those three things — the input pixels and the synapses in the neural network, and bird, the output — by three variables: x, w and y. there are maybe a million or so x's — a million pixels in that image. there are billions or trillions of w's, which represent the weights of all these synapses in the neural network. and there's a very small number of y's, of outputs that that network has. "bird" is only four letters, right? so let's pretend that this is just a simple formula, x "x" w = y. i'm putting the times in scare quotes because what's really going on there, of course, is a very complicated series of mathematical operations.that's one equation. there are three variables. and we all know that if you have one equation, you can solve one variable by knowing the other two things. so the problem of inference, that is, figuring out that the picture of a bird is a bird, is this one: it's where y is the unknown and w and x are known. you know the neural network, you know the pixels. as you can see, that's actually a relatively straightforward problem. you multiply two times three and you're done. i'll show you an artificial neural network that we've built recently, doing exactly that.this is running in real time on a mobile phone, and that's, of course, amazing in its own right, that mobile phones can do so many billions and trillions of operations per second. what you're looking at is a phone looking at one after another picture of a bird, and actually not only saying, "yes, it's a bird," but identifying the species of bird with a network of this sort. so in that picture, the x and the w are known, and the y is the unknown. i'm glossing over the very difficult part, of course, which is how on earth do we figure out the w, the brain that can do such a thing? how would we ever learn such a model?so this process of learning, of solving for w, if we were doing this with the simple equation in which we think about these as numbers, we know exactly how to do that: 6 = 2 x w, well, we divide by two and we're done. the problem is with this operator. so, division — we've used division because it's the inverse to multiplication, but as i've just said, the multiplication is a bit of a lie here. this is a very, very complicated, very non-linear operation; it has no inverse. so we have to figure out a way to solve the equation without a division operator. and the way to do that is fairly straightforward. you just say, let's play a little algebra trick, and move the six over to the right-hand side of the equation. now, we're still using multiplication. and that zero — let's think about it as an error. in other words, if we've solved for w the right way, then the error will be zero. and if we haven't gotten it quite right, the error will be greater than zero.so now we can just take guesses to minimize the error, and that's the sort of thing computers are very good at. so you've taken an initial guess: what if w = 0? well, then the error is 6. what if w = 1? the error is 4. and then the computer can sort of play marco polo, and drive down the error close to zero. as it does that, it's getting successive approximations to w. typically, it never quite gets there, but after about a dozen steps, we're up to w = 2.999, which is close enough. and this is the learning process.so remember that what's been going on here is that we've been taking a lot of known x's and known y's and solving for the w in the middle through an iterative process. it's exactly the same way that we do our own learning. we have many, many images as babies and we get told, "this is a bird; this is not a bird." and over time, through iteration, we solve for w, we solve for those neural connections.so now, we've held x and w fixed to solve for y; that's everyday, fast perception. we figure out how we can solve for w, that's learning, which is a lot harder, because we need to do error minimization, using a lot of training examples.and about a year ago, alex mordvintsev, on our team, decided to experiment with what happens if we try solving for x, given a known w and a known y. in other words, you know that it's a bird, and you already have your neural network that you've trained on birds, but what is the picture of a bird? it turns out that by using exactly the same error-minimization procedure, one can do that with the network trained to recognize birds, and the result turns out to be ... a picture of birds. so this is a picture of birds generated entirely by a neural network that was trained to recognize birds, just by solving for x rather than solving for y, and doing that iteratively.here's another fun example. this was a work made by mike tyka in our group, which he calls "animal parade." it reminds me a little bit of william kentridge's artworks, in which he makes sketches, rubs them out, makes sketches, rubs them out, and creates a movie this way. in this case, what mike is doing is varying y over the space of different animals, in a network designed to recognize and distinguish different animals from each other. and you get this strange, escher-like morph from one animal to another.here he and alex together have tried reducing the y's to a space of only two dimensions, thereby making a map out of the space of all things recognized by this network. doing this kind of synthesis or generation of imagery over that entire surface, varying y over the surface, you make a kind of map — a visual map of all the things the network knows how to recognize. the animals are all here; "armadillo" is right in that spot.you can do this with other kinds of networks as well. this is a network designed to recognize faces, to distinguish one face from another. and here, we're putting in a y that says, "me," my own face parameters. and when this thing solves for x, it generates this rather crazy, kind of cubist, surreal, psychedelic picture of me from multiple points of view at once. the reason it looks like multiple points of view at once is because that network is designed to get rid of the ambiguity of a face being in one pose or another pose, being looked at with one kind of lighting, another kind of lighting. so when you do this sort of reconstruction, if you don't use some sort of guide image or guide statistics, then you'll get a sort of confusion of different points of view, because it's ambiguous. this is what happens if alex uses his own face as a guide image during that optimization process to reconstruct my own face. so you can see it's not perfect. there's still quite a lot of work to do on how we optimize that optimization process. but you start to get something more like a coherent face, rendered using my own face as a guide.you don't have to start with a blank canvas or with white noise. when you're solving for x, you can begin with an x, that is itself already some other image. that's what this little demonstration is. this is a network that is designed to categorize all sorts of different objects — man-made structures, animals ... here we're starting with just a picture of clouds, and as we optimize, basically, this network is figuring out what it sees in the clouds. and the more time you spend looking at this, the more things you also will see in the clouds. you could also use the face network to hallucinate into this, and you get some pretty crazy stuff. or, mike has done some other experiments in which he takes that cloud image, hallucinates, zooms, hallucinates, zooms hallucinates, zooms. and in this way, you can get a sort of fugue state of the network, i suppose, or a sort of free association, in which the network is eating its own tail. so every image is now the basis for, "what do i think i see next? what do i think i see next? what do i think i see next?"i showed this for the first time in public to a group at a lecture in seattle called "higher education" — this was right after marijuana was legalized. so i'd like to finish up quickly by just noting that this technology is not constrained. i've shown you purely visual examples because they're really fun to look at. it's not a purely visual technology. our artist collaborator, ross goodwin, has done experiments involving a camera that takes a picture, and then a computer in his backpack writes a poem using neural networks, based on the contents of the image. and that poetry neural network has been trained on a large corpus of 20th-century poetry. and the poetry is, you know, i think, kind of not bad, actually. in closing, i think that per michelangelo, i think he was right; perception and creativity are very intimately connected. what we've just seen are neural networks that are entirely trained to discriminate, or to recognize different things in the world, able to be run in reverse, to generate. one of the things that suggests to me is not only that michelangelo really did see the sculpture in the blocks of stone, but that any creature, any being, any alien that is able to do perceptual acts of that sort is also able to create because it's exactly the same machinery that's used in both cases.also, i think that perception and creativity are by no means uniquely human. we start to have computer models that can do exactly these sorts of things. and that ought to be unsurprising; the brain is computational.and finally, computing began as an exercise in designing intelligent machinery. it was very much modeled after the idea of how could we make machines intelligent. and we finally are starting to fulfill now some of the promises of those early pioneers, of turing and von neumann and mcculloch and pitts. and i think that computing is not just about accounting or playing candy crush or something. from the beginning, we modeled them after our minds. and they give us both the ability to understand our own minds better and to extend them.thank you very much. <title = "Why you think you're right -- even if you're wrong">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'choice', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'decision-making', 'identity', 'leadership', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'society']">
<occupation = "Writer">
so i'd like you to imagine for a moment that you're a soldier in the heat of battle. maybe you're a roman foot soldier or a medieval archer or maybe you're a zulu warrior. regardless of your time and place, there are some things that are constant. your adrenaline is elevated, and your actions are stemming from these deeply ingrained reflexes, reflexes rooted in a need to protect yourself and your side and to defeat the enemy.so now, i'd like you to imagine playing a very different role, that of the scout. the scout's job is not to attack or defend. the scout's job is to understand. the scout is the one going out, mapping the terrain, identifying potential obstacles. and the scout may hope to learn that, say, there's a bridge in a convenient location across a river. but above all, the scout wants to know what's really there, as accurately as possible. and in a real, actual army, both the soldier and the scout are essential. but you can also think of each of these roles as a mindset — a metaphor for how all of us process information and ideas in our daily lives. what i'm going to argue today is that having good judgment, making accurate predictions, making good decisions, is mostly about which mindset you're in.to illustrate these mindsets in action, i'm going to take you back to 19th-century france, where this innocuous-looking piece of paper launched one of the biggest political scandals in history. it was discovered in 1894 by officers in the french general staff. it was torn up in a wastepaper basket, but when they pieced it back together, they discovered that someone in their ranks had been selling military secrets to germany.so they launched a big investigation, and their suspicions quickly converged on this man, alfred dreyfus. he had a sterling record, no past history of wrongdoing, no motive as far as they could tell. but dreyfus was the only jewish officer at that rank in the army, and unfortunately at this time, the french army was highly anti-semitic. they compared dreyfus's handwriting to that on the memo and concluded that it was a match, even though outside professional handwriting experts were much less confident in the similarity, but never mind that. they went and searched dreyfus's apartment, looking for any signs of espionage. they went through his files, and they didn't find anything. this just convinced them more that dreyfus was not only guilty, but sneaky as well, because clearly he had hidden all of the evidence before they had managed to get to it.next, they went and looked through his personal history for any incriminating details. they talked to his teachers, they found that he had studied foreign languages in school, which clearly showed a desire to conspire with foreign governments later in life. his teachers also said that dreyfus was known for having a good memory, which was highly suspicious, right? you know, because a spy has to remember a lot of things.so the case went to trial, and dreyfus was found guilty. afterwards, they took him out into this public square and ritualistically tore his insignia from his uniform and broke his sword in two. this was called the degradation of dreyfus. and they sentenced him to life imprisonment on the aptly named devil's island, which is this barren rock off the coast of south america. so there he went, and there he spent his days alone, writing letters and letters to the french government begging them to reopen his case so they could discover his innocence. but for the most part, france considered the matter closed.one thing that's really interesting to me about the dreyfus affair is this question of why the officers were so convinced that dreyfus was guilty. i mean, you might even assume that they were setting him up, that they were intentionally framing him. but historians don't think that's what happened. as far as we can tell, the officers genuinely believed that the case against dreyfus was strong. which makes you wonder: what does it say about the human mind that we can find such paltry evidence to be compelling enough to convict a man?well, this is a case of what scientists call "motivated reasoning." it's this phenomenon in which our unconscious motivations, our desires and fears, shape the way we interpret information. some information, some ideas, feel like our allies. we want them to win. we want to defend them. and other information or ideas are the enemy, and we want to shoot them down. so this is why i call motivated reasoning, "soldier mindset."probably most of you have never persecuted a french-jewish officer for high treason, i assume, but maybe you've followed sports or politics, so you might have noticed that when the referee judges that your team committed a foul, for example, you're highly motivated to find reasons why he's wrong. but if he judges that the other team committed a foul — awesome! that's a good call, let's not examine it too closely. or, maybe you've read an article or a study that examined some controversial policy, like capital punishment. and, as researchers have demonstrated, if you support capital punishment and the study shows that it's not effective, then you're highly motivated to find all the reasons why the study was poorly designed. but if it shows that capital punishment works, it's a good study. and vice versa: if you don't support capital punishment, same thing.our judgment is strongly influenced, unconsciously, by which side we want to win. and this is ubiquitous. this shapes how we think about our health, our relationships, how we decide how to vote, what we consider fair or ethical. what's most scary to me about motivated reasoning or soldier mindset, is how unconscious it is. we can think we're being objective and fair-minded and still wind up ruining the life of an innocent man.however, fortunately for dreyfus, his story is not over. this is colonel picquart. he's another high-ranking officer in the french army, and like most people, he assumed dreyfus was guilty. also like most people in the army, he was at least casually anti-semitic. but at a certain point, picquart began to suspect: "what if we're all wrong about dreyfus?" what happened was, he had discovered evidence that the spying for germany had continued, even after dreyfus was in prison. and he had also discovered that another officer in the army had handwriting that perfectly matched the memo, much closer than dreyfus's handwriting. so he brought these discoveries to his superiors, but to his dismay, they either didn't care or came up with elaborate rationalizations to explain his findings, like, "well, all you've really shown, picquart, is that there's another spy who learned how to mimic dreyfus's handwriting, and he picked up the torch of spying after dreyfus left. but dreyfus is still guilty." eventually, picquart managed to get dreyfus exonerated. but it took him 10 years, and for part of that time, he himself was in prison for the crime of disloyalty to the army.a lot of people feel like picquart can't really be the hero of this story because he was an anti-semite and that's bad, which i agree with. but personally, for me, the fact that picquart was anti-semitic actually makes his actions more admirable, because he had the same prejudices, the same reasons to be biased as his fellow officers, but his motivation to find the truth and uphold it trumped all of that.so to me, picquart is a poster child for what i call "scout mindset." it's the drive not to make one idea win or another lose, but just to see what's really there as honestly and accurately as you can, even if it's not pretty or convenient or pleasant. this mindset is what i'm personally passionate about. and i've spent the last few years examining and trying to figure out what causes scout mindset. why are some people, sometimes at least, able to cut through their own prejudices and biases and motivations and just try to see the facts and the evidence as objectively as they can?and the answer is emotional. so, just as soldier mindset is rooted in emotions like defensiveness or tribalism, scout mindset is, too. it's just rooted in different emotions. for example, scouts are curious. they're more likely to say they feel pleasure when they learn new information or an itch to solve a puzzle. they're more likely to feel intrigued when they encounter something that contradicts their expectations. scouts also have different values. they're more likely to say they think it's virtuous to test your own beliefs, and they're less likely to say that someone who changes his mind seems weak. and above all, scouts are grounded, which means their self-worth as a person isn't tied to how right or wrong they are about any particular topic. so they can believe that capital punishment works. if studies come out showing that it doesn't, they can say, "huh. looks like i might be wrong. doesn't mean i'm bad or stupid."this cluster of traits is what researchers have found — and i've also found anecdotally — predicts good judgment. and the key takeaway i want to leave you with about those traits is that they're primarily not about how smart you are or about how much you know. in fact, they don't correlate very much with iq at all. they're about how you feel. there's a quote that i keep coming back to, by saint-exupéry. he's the author of "the little prince." he said, "if you want to build a ship, don't drum up your men to collect wood and give orders and distribute the work. instead, teach them to yearn for the vast and endless sea."in other words, i claim, if we really want to improve our judgment as individuals and as societies, what we need most is not more instruction in logic or rhetoric or probability or economics, even though those things are quite valuable. but what we most need to use those principles well is scout mindset. we need to change the way we feel. we need to learn how to feel proud instead of ashamed when we notice we might have been wrong about something. we need to learn how to feel intrigued instead of defensive when we encounter some information that contradicts our beliefs.so the question i want to leave you with is: what do you most yearn for? do you yearn to defend your own beliefs? or do you yearn to see the world as clearly as you possibly can?thank you. <title = "Clues to prehistoric times, found in blind cavefish">
<tags = "['Blindness', 'DNA', 'TED Fellows', 'ancient world', 'animals', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'brain', 'curiosity', 'ecology', 'environment', 'evolution', 'exploration', 'fish', 'history', 'life', 'nature', 'science', 'sight', 'time']">
<occupation = "Ichthyologist">
ichthyology, the study of fishes. it looks like a big, boring word, but it's actually quite exciting, because ichthyology is the only "ology" with "yolo" in it. now, to the cool kids in the audience, you already know, yolo stands for "you only live once," and because i only have one life, i'm going to spend it doing what i always dreamt of doing: seeing the hidden wonders of the world and discovering new species. and that's what i get to do.now, in recent years, i really focused on caves for finding new species. and it turns out, there's lots of new cavefish species out there. you just have to know where to look, and to maybe be a little thin. now, cavefishes can tell me a lot about biology and geology. they can tell me how the landmasses around them have changed and moved by being stuck in these little holes, and they can tell me about the evolution of sight, by being blind.now, fish have eyes that are essentially the same as ours. all vertebrates do, and each time a fish species starts to adapt to this dark, cold, cave environment, over many, many generations, they lose their eyes and their eyesight until the end up like an eyeless cavefish like this one here. now, each cavefish species has evolved in a slightly different way, and each one has a unique geological and biological story to tell us, and that's why it's so exciting when we find a new species.so this is a new species we described, from southern indiana. we named it amblyopsis hoosieri, the hoosier cavefish. its closest relatives are cavefishes in kentucky, in the mammoth cave system. and they start to diverge when the ohio river split them a few million years ago. and in that time they developed these subtle differences in the genetic architecture behind their blindness. there's this gene called rhodopsin that's super-critical for sight. we have it, and these species have it too, except one species has lost all function in that gene, and the other one maintains it. so this sets up this beautiful natural experiment where we can look at the genes behind our vision, and at the very roots of how we can see.but the genes in these cavefishes can also tell us about deep geological time, maybe no more so than in this species here. this is a new species we described from madagascar that we named typhleotris mararybe. that means "big sickness" in malagasy, for how sick we got trying to collect this species. now, believe it or not, swimming around sinkholes full of dead things and cave full of bat poop isn't the smartest thing you could be doing with your life, but yolo. now, i love this species despite the fact that it tried to kill us, and that's because this species in madagascar, its closest relatives are 6,000 kilometers away, cavefishes in australia. now, there's no way a three-inch-long freshwater cavefish can swim across the indian ocean, so what we found when we compared the dna of these species is that they've been separated for more than 100 million years, or about the time that the southern continents were last together. so in fact, these species didn't move at all. it's the continents that moved them. and so they give us, through their dna, this precise model and measure of how to date and time these ancient geological events.now, this species here is so new i'm not even allowed to tell you its name yet, but i can tell you it's a new species from mexico, and it's probably already extinct. it's probably extinct because the only known cave system it's from was destroyed when a dam was built nearby. unfortunately for cavefishes, their groundwater habitat is also our main source of drinking water.now, we actually don't know this species' closest relative, yet. it doesn't appear to be anything else in mexico, so maybe it's something in cuba, or florida, or india. but whatever it is, it might tell us something new about the geology of the caribbean, or the biology of how to better diagnose certain types of blindness. but i hope we discover this species before it goes extinct too.and i'm going to spend my one life as an ichthyologist trying to discover and save these humble little blind cavefishes that can tell us so much about the geology of the planet and the biology of how we see.thank you. <title = ""Redemption Song"">
<tags = "['Criminal Justice', 'United States', 'activism', 'big problems', 'culture', 'live music', 'music', 'performance', 'personal growth', 'piano', 'policy', 'prison', 'singer', 'social change', 'society', 'vocals']">
<occupation = "Singer, musician, composer">
at free america, we've done a listening and learning tour. we visited not only with prosecutors but with legislators, with inmates in our state and local prisons. we've gone to immigration detention centers. we've met a lot of people. and we've seen that redemption and transformation can happen in our prisons, our jails and our immigration detention centers, giving hope to those who want to create a better life after serving their time.imagine if we also considered the front end of this prison pipeline. what would it look like if we intervened, with rehabilitation as a core value — with love and compassion as core values? we would have a society that is safer, healthier and worthy of raising our children in.i want to introduce you to james cavitt. james served 12 years in the san quentin state prison and is being released in 18 months. now james, like you and me, is more than the worst thing he's done. he is a father, a husband, a son, a poet. he committed a crime; he's paying his debt, and working hard to build the skills to make the transition back to a productive life when he enters the civilian population again.now james, like millions of people behind bars, is an example of what happens if we believe that our failings don't define who we are, that we are all worthy of redemption and if we support those impacted by mass incarceration, we can all heal together.i'd like to introduce you to james right now, and he's going to share his journey of redemption through spoken word.james cavitt: thanks, john. ted, welcome to san quentin. the talent is abundant behind prison walls. future software engineers, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, musicians and artists. this piece is inspired by all of the hard work that men and women are doing on the inside to create better lives and futures for themselves after they serve their time.this piece is entitled, "where i live."i live in a world where most people are too afraid to go. surrounded by tall, concrete walls, steel bars, where razor wire have a way of cutting away at the hopes for a brighter tomorrow.i live in a world that kill people who kill people in order to teach people that killing people is wrong. imagine that.better yet, imagine a world where healed people helped hurt people heal and become strong. maybe then we would all be singin' "redemption song."i live in a world that has been called "hell on earth" by those trapped inside. but i've come to the stark realization that prison — it really is what you make it. you see, in spite of the harshness of my reality, there is a silver lining. i knew that my freedom was gonna come, it was just a matter of time. and so i treated my first steps as if they were my last mile, and i realized that you don't have to be free in order to experience freedom.and just because you're free, doesn't mean that you have freedom. many of us, for years, have been battling our inner demons. we walk around smiling when inside we're really screamin': freedom!don't you get it? we're all serving time; we're just in different places. as for me, i choose to be free from the prisons i've created. the key: forgiveness. action's my witness. if we want freedom, then we gotta think different. because freedom ... it isn't a place. it's a mind setting.thank you. (piano)john legend: old pirates, yes, they rob i. sold i to the merchant ships. minutes after they took i from the bottomless pit.my hands were made strong by the hand of the almighty. we forward in this generation triumphantly.won't you help to sing these songs of freedom? 'cause all i ever had — redemption songs. redemption songs.emancipate yourselves from mental slavery. none but ourselves can free our minds. have no fear for atomic energy 'cause none of them can stop the time.how long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look? some say it's just a part of it, we've got to fulfill the book.won't you help to sing these songs of freedom? 'cause all i ever had — redemption songs. redemption songs.(piano)emancipate yourselves from mental slavery. none but ourselves can free our minds. have no fear for atomic energy 'cause none of them can stop the time.how long shall they kill our prophets while we stand aside and look? some say it's just a part of it, we've got to fulfill the book.won't you help to sing these songs of freedom? 'cause all i ever had — redemption songs. redemption songs. these songs of freedom.'cause all i ever had — redemption songs. redemption songs. redemption songs.(piano) thank you.thank you. <title = "How Syria's architecture laid the foundation for brutal war">
<tags = "['Middle East', 'architecture', 'big problems', 'cities', 'collaboration', 'community', 'design', 'disaster relief', 'engineering', 'identity', 'infrastructure', 'potential', 'public spaces', 'refugees', 'religion', 'security', 'social change', 'society', 'urban planning', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Architect">
hi. my name is marwa, and i'm an architect. i was born and raised in homs, a city in the central western part of syria, and i've always lived here. after six years of war, homs is now a half-destroyed city. my family and i were lucky; our place is still standing. although for two years, we were like prisoners at home. outside there were demonstrations and battles and bombings and snipers. my husband and i used to run an architecture studio in the old town main square. it's gone, as is most of the old town itself. half of the city's other neighborhoods are now rubble. since the ceasefire in late 2015, large parts of homs have been more or less quiet. the economy is completely broken, and people are still fighting. the merchants who had stalls in the old city market now trade out of sheds on the streets. under our apartment, there is a carpenter, sweetshops, a butcher, a printing house, workshops, among many more. i have started teaching part-time, and with my husband, who juggles several jobs, we've opened a small bookshop. other people do all sorts of jobs to get by.when i look at my destroyed city, of course, i ask myself: what has led to this senseless war? syria was largely a place of tolerance, historically accustomed to variety, accommodating a wide range of beliefs, origins, customs, goods, food. how did my country — a country with communities living harmoniously together and comfortable in discussing their differences — how did it degenerate into civil war, violence, displacement and unprecedented sectarian hatred? there were many reasons that had led to the war — social, political and economic. they all have played their role. but i believe there is one key reason that has been overlooked and which is important to analyze, because from it will largely depend whether we can make sure that this doesn't happen again. and that reason is architecture.architecture in my country has played an important role in creating, directing and amplifying conflict between warring factions, and this is probably true for other countries as well. there is a sure correspondence between the architecture of a place and the character of the community that has settled there. architecture plays a key role in whether a community crumbles or comes together. syrian society has long lived the coexistence of different traditions and backgrounds. syrians have experienced the prosperity of open trade and sustainable communities. they have enjoyed the true meaning of belonging to a place, and that was reflected in their built environment, in the mosques and churches built back-to-back, in the interwoven souks and public venues, and the proportions and sizes based on principles of humanity and harmony.this architecture of mixity can still be read in the remains. the old islamic city in syria was built over a multilayered past, integrating with it and embracing its spirit. so did its communities. people lived and worked with each other in a place that gave them a sense of belonging and made them feel at home. they shared a remarkably unified existence.but over the last century, gradually this delicate balance of these places has been interfered with; first, by the urban planners of the colonial period, when the french went enthusiastically about, transforming what they saw as the un-modern syrian cities. they blew up city streets and relocated monuments. they called them improvements, and they were the beginning of a long, slow unraveling. the traditional urbanism and architecture of our cities assured identity and belonging not by separation, but by intertwining. but over time, the ancient became worthless, and the new, coveted. the harmony of the built environment and social environment got trampled over by elements of modernity — brutal, unfinished concrete blocks, neglect, aesthetic devastation, divisive urbanism that zoned communities by class, creed or affluence.and the same was happening to the community. as the shape of the built environment changed, so the lifestyles and sense of belonging of the communities also started changing. from a register of togetherness, of belonging, architecture became a way of differentiation, and communities started drifting apart from the very fabric that used to unite them, and from the soul of the place that used to represent their common existence.while many reasons had led to the syrian war, we shouldn't underestimate the way in which, by contributing to the loss of identity and self-respect, urban zoning and misguided, inhumane architecture have nurtured sectarian divisions and hatred. over time, the united city has morphed into a city center with ghettos along its circumference. and in turn, the coherent communities became distinct social groups, alienated from each other and alienated from the place. from my point of view, losing the sense of belonging to a place and a sense of sharing it with someone else has made it a lot easier to destroy.the clear example can be seen in the informal housing system, which used to host, before the war, over 40 percent of the population. yes, prior to the war, almost half of the syrian population lived in slums, peripheral areas without proper infrastructure, made of endless rows of bare block boxes containing people, people who mostly belonged to the same group, whether based on religion, class, origin or all of the above.this ghettoized urbanism proved to be a tangible precursor of war. conflict is much easier between pre-categorized areas — where the "others" live. the ties that used to bind the city together — whether they were social, through coherent building, or economic, through trade in the souk, or religious, through the coexistent presence — were all lost in the misguided and visionless modernization of the built environment.allow me an aside. when i read about heterogeneous urbanism in other parts of the world, involving ethnic neighborhoods in british cities or around paris or brussels, i recognize the beginning of the kind of instability we have witnessed so disastrously here in syria.we have severely destroyed cities, such as homs, aleppo, daraa and many others, and almost half of the population of the country is now displaced.hopefully, the war will end, and the question that, as an architect, i have to ask, is: how do we rebuild? what are the principles that we should adopt in order to avoid repeating the same mistakes? from my point of view, the main focus should be on creating places that make their people feel they belong. architecture and planning need to recapture some of the traditional values that did just that, creating the conditions for coexistence and peace, values of beauty that don't exhibit ostentation, but rather, approachability and ease, moral values that promote generosity and acceptance, architecture that is for everyone to enjoy, not just for the elite, just as used to be in the shadowed alleys of the old islamic city, mixed designs that encourage a sense of community.there is a neighborhood here in homs that's called baba amr that has been fully destroyed. almost two years ago, i introduced this design into a un-habitat competition for rebuilding it. the idea was to create an urban fabric inspired by a tree, capable of growing and spreading organically, echoing the traditional bridge hanging over the old alleys, and incorporating apartments, private courtyards, shops, workshops, places for parking and playing and leisure, trees and shaded areas. it's far from perfect, obviously. i drew it during the few hours of electricity we get. and there are many possible ways to express belonging and community through architecture. but compare it with the freestanding, disconnected blocks proposed by the official project for rebuilding baba amr.architecture is not the axis around which all human life rotates, but it has the power to suggest and even direct human activity. in that sense, settlement, identity and social integration are all the producer and product of effective urbanism. the coherent urbanism of the old islamic city and of many old european towns, for instance, promote integration, while rows of soulless housing or tower blocks, even when they are luxurious, tend to promote isolation and "otherness." even simple things like shaded places or fruit plants or drinking water inside the city can make a difference in how people feel towards the place, and whether they consider it a generous place that gives, a place that's worth keeping, contributing to, or whether they see it as an alienating place, full of seeds of anger. in order for a place to give, its architecture should be giving, too.our built environment matters. the fabric of our cities is reflected in the fabric of our souls. and whether in the shape of informal concrete slums or broken social housing or trampled old towns or forests of skyscrapers, the contemporary urban archetypes that have emerged all across the middle east have been one cause of the alienation and fragmentation of our communities.we can learn from this. we can learn how to rebuild in another way, how to create an architecture that doesn't contribute only to the practical and economic aspects of people's lives, but also to their social, spiritual and psychological needs. those needs were totally overlooked in the syrian cities before the war. we need to create again cities that are shared by the communities that inhabit them. if we do so, people will not feel the need to seek identities opposed to the other identities all around, because they will all feel at home.thank you for listening.<title = "Why Brexit happened -- and what to do next">
<tags = "['Europe', 'big problems', 'choice', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'democracy', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'immigration', 'inequality', 'news', 'policy', 'politics', 'refugees', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Social scientist">
i am british. never before has the phrase "i am british" elicited so much pity. i come from an island where many of us like to believe there's been a lot of continuity over the last thousand years. we tend to have historically imposed change on others but done much less of it ourselves.so it came as an immense shock to me when i woke up on the morning of june 24 to discover that my country had voted to leave the european union, my prime minister had resigned, and scotland was considering a referendum that could bring to an end the very existence of the united kingdom. so that was an immense shock for me, and it was an immense shock for many people, but it was also something that, over the following several days, created a complete political meltdown in my country. there were calls for a second referendum, almost as if, following a sports match, we could ask the opposition for a replay. everybody was blaming everybody else. people blamed the prime minister for calling the referendum in the first place. they blamed the leader of the opposition for not fighting it hard enough. the young accused the old. the educated blamed the less well-educated. that complete meltdown was made even worse by the most tragic element of it: levels of xenophobia and racist abuse in the streets of britain at a level that i have never seen before in my lifetime. people are now talking about whether my country is becoming a little england, or, as one of my colleagues put it, whether we're about to become a 1950s nostalgia theme park floating in the atlantic ocean. but my question is really, should we have the degree of shock that we've experienced since? was it something that took place overnight? or are there deeper structural factors that have led us to where we are today? so i want to take a step back and ask two very basic questions. first, what does brexit represent, not just for my country, but for all of us around the world? and second, what can we do about it? how should we all respond?so first, what does brexit represent? hindsight is a wonderful thing. brexit teaches us many things about our society and about societies around the world. it highlights in ways that we seem embarrassingly unaware of how divided our societies are. the vote split along lines of age, education, class and geography. young people didn't turn out to vote in great numbers, but those that did wanted to remain. older people really wanted to leave the european union. geographically, it was london and scotland that most strongly committed to being part of the european union, while in other parts of the country there was very strong ambivalence. those divisions are things we really need to recognize and take seriously. but more profoundly, the vote teaches us something about the nature of politics today. contemporary politics is no longer just about right and left. it's no longer just about tax and spend. it's about globalization. the fault line of contemporary politics is between those that embrace globalization and those that fear globalization. if we look at why those who wanted to leave — we call them "leavers," as opposed to "remainers" — we see two factors in the opinion polls that really mattered. the first was immigration, and the second sovereignty, and these represent a desire for people to take back control of their own lives and the feeling that they are unrepresented by politicians. but those ideas are ones that signify fear and alienation. they represent a retreat back towards nationalism and borders in ways that many of us would reject. what i want to suggest is the picture is more complicated than that, that liberal internationalists, like myself, and i firmly include myself in that picture, need to write ourselves back into the picture in order to understand how we've got to where we are today. when we look at the voting patterns across the united kingdom, we can visibly see the divisions. the blue areas show remain and the red areas leave. when i looked at this, what personally struck me was the very little time in my life i've actually spent in many of the red areas. i suddenly realized that, looking at the top 50 areas in the uk that have the strongest leave vote, i've spent a combined total of four days of my life in those areas. in some of those places, i didn't even know the names of the voting districts. it was a real shock to me, and it suggested that people like me who think of ourselves as inclusive, open and tolerant, perhaps don't know our own countries and societies nearly as well as we like to believe. and the challenge that comes from that is we need to find a new way to narrate globalization to those people, to recognize that for those people who have not necessarily been to university, who haven't necessarily grown up with the internet, that don't get opportunities to travel, they may be unpersuaded by the narrative that we find persuasive in our often liberal bubbles. it means that we need to reach out more broadly and understand. in the leave vote, a minority have peddled the politics of fear and hatred, creating lies and mistrust around, for instance, the idea that the vote on europe could reduce the number of refugees and asylum-seekers coming to europe, when the vote on leaving had nothing to do with immigration from outside the european union. but for a significant majority of the leave voters the concern was disillusionment with the political establishment. this was a protest vote for many, a sense that nobody represented them, that they couldn't find a political party that spoke for them, and so they rejected that political establishment.this replicates around europe and much of the liberal democratic world. we see it with the rise in popularity of donald trump in the united states, with the growing nationalism of viktor orbán in hungary, with the increase in popularity of marine le pen in france. the specter of brexit is in all of our societies.so the question i think we need to ask is my second question, which is how should we collectively respond? for all of us who care about creating liberal, open, tolerant societies, we urgently need a new vision, a vision of a more tolerant, inclusive globalization, one that brings people with us rather than leaving them behind.that vision of globalization is one that has to start by a recognition of the positive benefits of globalization. the consensus amongst economists is that free trade, the movement of capital, the movement of people across borders benefit everyone on aggregate. the consensus amongst international relations scholars is that globalization brings interdependence, which brings cooperation and peace. but globalization also has redistributive effects. it creates winners and losers. to take the example of migration, we know that immigration is a net positive for the economy as a whole under almost all circumstances. but we also have to be very aware that there are redistributive consequences, that importantly, low-skilled immigration can lead to a reduction in wages for the most impoverished in our societies and also put pressure on house prices. that doesn't detract from the fact that it's positive, but it means more people have to share in those benefits and recognize them.in 2002, the former secretary-general of the united nations, kofi annan, gave a speech at yale university, and that speech was on the topic of inclusive globalization. that was the speech in which he coined that term. and he said, and i paraphrase, "the glass house of globalization has to be open to all if it is to remain secure. bigotry and ignorance are the ugly face of exclusionary and antagonistic globalization."that idea of inclusive globalization was briefly revived in 2008 in a conference on progressive governance involving many of the leaders of european countries. but amid austerity and the financial crisis of 2008, the concept disappeared almost without a trace. globalization has been taken to support a neoliberal agenda. it's perceived to be part of an elite agenda rather than something that benefits all. and it needs to be reclaimed on a far more inclusive basis than it is today.so the question is, how can we achieve that goal? how can we balance on the one hand addressing fear and alienation while on the other hand refusing vehemently to give in to xenophobia and nationalism? that is the question for all of us. and i think, as a social scientist, that social science offers some places to start. our transformation has to be about both ideas and about material change, and i want to give you four ideas as a starting point.the first relates to the idea of civic education. what stands out from brexit is the gap between public perception and empirical reality. it's been suggested that we've moved to a postfactual society, where evidence and truth no longer matter, and lies have equal status to the clarity of evidence. so how can we — how can we rebuild respect for truth and evidence into our liberal democracies? it has to begin with education, but it has to start with the recognition that there are huge gaps.in 2014, the pollster ipsos mori published a survey on attitudes to immigration, and it showed that as numbers of immigrants increase, so public concern with immigration also increases, although it obviously didn't unpack causality, because this could equally be to do not so much with numbers but the political and media narrative around it. but the same survey also revealed huge public misinformation and misunderstanding about the nature of immigration. for example, in these attitudes in the united kingdom, the public believed that levels of asylum were a greater proportion of immigration than they were, but they also believed the levels of educational migration were far lower as a proportion of overall migration than they actually are. so we have to address this misinformation, the gap between perception and reality on key aspects of globalization. and that can't just be something that's left to our schools, although that's important to begin at an early age. it has to be about lifelong civic participation and public engagement that we all encourage as societies.the second thing that i think is an opportunity is the idea to encourage more interaction across diverse communities. one of the things that stands out for me very strikingly, looking at immigration attitudes in the united kingdom, is that ironically, the regions of my country that are the most tolerant of immigrants have the highest numbers of immigrants. so for instance, london and the southeast have the highest numbers of immigrants, and they are also by far the most tolerant areas. it's those areas of the country that have the lowest levels of immigration that actually are the most exclusionary and intolerant towards migrants.so we need to encourage exchange programs. we need to ensure that older generations who maybe can't travel get access to the internet. we need to encourage, even on a local and national level, more movement, more participation, more interaction with people who we don't know and whose views we might not necessarily agree with.the third thing that i think is crucial, though, and this is really fundamental, is we have to ensure that everybody shares in the benefits of globalization. this illustration from the financial times post-brexit is really striking. it shows tragically that those people who voted to leave the european union were those who actually benefited the most materially from trade with the european union. but the problem is that those people in those areas didn't perceive themselves to be beneficiaries. they didn't believe that they were actually getting access to material benefits of increased trade and increased mobility around the world.i work on questions predominantly to do with refugees, and one of the ideas i spent a lot of my time preaching, mainly to developing countries around the world, is that in order to encourage the integration of refugees, we can't just benefit the refugee populations, we also have to address the concerns of the host communities in local areas. but in looking at that, one of the policy prescriptions is that we have to provide disproportionately better education facilities, health facilities, access to social services in those regions of high immigration to address the concerns of those local populations. but while we encourage that around the developing world, we don't take those lessons home and incorporate them in our own societies.furthermore, if we're going to really take seriously the need to ensure people share in the economic benefits, our businesses and corporations need a model of globalization that recognizes that they, too, have to take people with them.the fourth and final idea i want to put forward is an idea that we need more responsible politics. there's very little social science evidence that compares attitudes on globalization. but from the surveys that do exist, what we can see is there's huge variation across different countries and time periods in those countries for attitudes and tolerance of questions like migration and mobility on the one hand and free trade on the other. but one hypothesis that i think emerges from a cursory look at that data is the idea that polarized societies are far less tolerant of globalization. it's the societies like sweden in the past, like canada today, where there is a centrist politics, where right and left work together, that we encourage supportive attitudes towards globalization. and what we see around the world today is a tragic polarization, a failure to have dialogue between the extremes in politics, and a gap in terms of that liberal center ground that can encourage communication and a shared understanding. we might not achieve that today, but at the very least we have to call upon our politicians and our media to drop a language of fear and be far more tolerant of one another. these ideas are very tentative, and that's in part because this needs to be an inclusive and shared project.i am still british. i am still european. i am still a global citizen. for those of us who believe that our identities are not mutually exclusive, we have to all work together to ensure that globalization takes everyone with us and doesn't leave people behind. only then will we truly reconcile democracy and globalization.thank you. <title = "Why I keep speaking up, even when people mock my accent">
<tags = "['Internet', 'TED Fellows', 'animation', 'art', 'bullying', 'comedy', 'communication', 'design', 'fear', 'humor', 'identity', 'language', 'media', 'society', 'speech', 'vocals']">
<occupation = "Artist, graphic designer, filmmaker">
i used to have this recurring dream where i'd walk into a roomful of people, and i'd try not to make eye contact with anyone. until someone notices me, and i just panic. and the person walks up to me, and says, "hi, my name is so-and-so. and what is your name?" and i'm just quiet, unable to respond. after some awkward silence, he goes, "have you forgotten your name?" and i'm still quiet. and then, slowly, all the other people in the room begin to turn toward me and ask, almost in unison,(voice-over, several voices) "have you forgotten your name?" as the chant gets louder, i want to respond, but i don't.i'm a visual artist. some of my work is humorous, and some is a bit funny but in a sad way. and one thing that i really enjoy doing is making these little animations where i get to do the voice-over for all kinds of characters. i've been a bear.(video) bear (safwat saleem's voice): hi. safwat saleem: i've been a whale.(video) whale (ss's voice): hi. ss: i've been a greeting card.(video) greeting card (ss's voice): hi. ss: and my personal favorite is frankenstein's monster.(video) frankenstein's monster (ss's voice): (grunts) ss: i just had to grunt a lot for that one.a few years ago, i made this educational video about the history of video games. and for that one, i got to do the voice of space invader.(video) space invader (ss's voice): hi.ss: a dream come true, really, and when that video was posted online, i just sat there on the computer, hitting "refresh," excited to see the response. the first comment comes in.(video) comment: great job. ss: yes! i hit "refresh."(video) comment: excellent video. i look forward to the next one.ss: this was just the first of a two-part video. i was going to work on the second one next. i hit "refresh."(video) comment: where is part two? whereeeee? i need it nowwwww!: p ss: people other than my mom were saying nice things about me, on the internet! it felt like i had finally arrived. i hit "refresh."(video) comment: his voice is annoying. no offense.ss: ok, no offense taken. refresh.(video) comment: could you remake this without peanut butter in your mouth?ss: ok, at least the feedback is somewhat constructive. hit "refresh."(video) comment: please don't use this narrator again u can barely understand him.ss: refresh.(video) comment: couldn't follow because of the indian accent.ss: ok, ok, ok, two things. number one, i don't have an indian accent, i have a pakistani accent, ok? and number two, i clearly have a pakistani accent. but comments like that kept coming in, so i figured i should just ignore them and start working on the second part of the video. i recorded my audio, but every time i sat down to edit, i just could not do it. every single time, it would take me back to my childhood, when i had a much harder time speaking.i've stuttered for as long as i can remember. i was the kid in class who would never raise his hand when he had a question — or knew the answer. every time the phone rang, i would run to the bathroom so i would not have to answer it. if it was for me, my parents would say i'm not around. i spent a lot of time in the bathroom. and i hated introducing myself, especially in groups. i'd always stutter on my name, and there was usually someone who'd go, "have you forgotten your name?" and then everybody would laugh. that joke never got old. i spent my childhood feeling that if i spoke, it would become obvious that there was something wrong with me, that i was not normal. so i mostly stayed quiet. and so you see, eventually for me to even be able to use my voice in my work was a huge step for me. every time i record audio, i fumble my way through saying each sentence many, many times, and then i go back in and pick the ones where i think i suck the least.(voice-over) ss: audio editing is like photoshop for your voice. i can slow it down, speed it up, make it deeper, add an echo. and if i stutter along the way, and if i stutter along the way, i just go back in and fix it. it's magic.ss: using my highly edited voice in my work was a way for me to finally sound normal to myself. but after the comments on the video, it no longer made me feel normal. and so i stopped using my voice in my work. since then, i've thought a lot about what it means to be normal. and i've come to understand that "normal" has a lot to do with expectations.let me give you an example. i came across this story about the ancient greek writer, homer. now, homer mentions very few colors in his writing. and even when he does, he seems to get them quite a bit wrong. for example, the sea is described as wine red, people's faces are sometimes green and sheep are purple. but it's not just homer. if you look at all of the ancient literature — ancient chinese, icelandic, greek, indian and even the original hebrew bible — they all mention very few colors. and the most popular theory for why that might be the case is that cultures begin to recognize a color only once they have the ability to make that color. so basically, if you can make a color, only then can you see it. a color like red, which was fairly easy for many cultures to make — they began to see that color fairly early on. but a color like blue, which was much harder to make — many cultures didn't begin to learn how to make that color until much later. they didn't begin to see it until much later as well. so until then, even though a color might be all around them, they simply did not have the ability to see it. it was invisible. it was not a part of their normal.and that story has helped put my own experience into context. so when i first read the comments on the video, my initial reaction was to take it all very personally. but the people commenting did not know how self-conscious i am about my voice. they were mostly reacting to my accent, that it is not normal for a narrator to have an accent.but what is normal, anyway? we know that reviewers will find more spelling errors in your writing if they think you're black. we know that professors are less likely to help female or minority students. and we know that resumes with white-sounding names get more callbacks than resumes with black-sounding names. why is that? because of our expectations of what is normal. we think it is normal when a black student has spelling errors. we think it is normal when a female or minority student does not succeed. and we think it is normal that a white employee is a better hire than a black employee. but studies also show that discrimination of this kind, in most cases, is simply favoritism, and it results more from wanting to help people that you can relate to than the desire to harm people that you can't relate to.and not relating to people starts at a very early age. let me give you an example. one library that keeps track of characters in the children's book collection every year, found that in 2014, only about 11 percent of the books had a character of color. and just the year before, that number was about eight percent, even though half of american children today come from a minority background. half.so there are two big issues here. number one, children are told that they can be anything, they can do anything, and yet, most stories that children of color consume are about people who are not like them. number two is that majority groups don't get to realize the great extent to which they are similar to minorities — our everyday experiences, our hopes, our dreams, our fears and our mutual love for hummus. it's delicious! just like the color blue for ancient greeks, minorities are not a part of what we consider normal, because normal is simply a construction of what we've been exposed to, and how visible it is around us.and this is where things get a bit difficult. i can accept the preexisting notion of normal — that normal is good, and anything outside of that very narrow definition of normal is bad. or i can challenge that preexisting notion of normal with my work and with my voice and with my accent and by standing here onstage, even though i'm scared shitless and would rather be in the bathroom. (video) sheep (ss's voice): i'm now slowly starting to use my voice in my work again. and it feels good. it does not mean i won't have a breakdown the next time a couple dozen people say that i talk (mumbling) like i have peanut butter in my mouth. ss: it just means i now have a much better understanding of what's at stake, and how giving up is not an option.the ancient greeks didn't just wake up one day and realize that the sky was blue. it took centuries, even, for humans to realize what we had been ignoring for so long. and so we must continuously challenge our notion of normal, because doing so is going to allow us as a society to finally see the sky for what it is.(video) characters: thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. frankenstein's monster: (grunts) ss: thank you. <title = "When we design for disability, we all benefit">
<tags = "['Senses', 'TEDx', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'design', 'disability', 'innovation', 'personal growth', 'society']">
<occupation = "Lawyer, artist, human rights advocate">
i'll never forget the sound of laughing with my friends. i'll never forget the sound of my mother's voice right before i fell asleep. and i'll never forget the comforting sound of water trickling down a stream. imagine my fear, pure fear, when, at the age of 10, i was told i was going to lose my hearing. and over the next five years, it progressed until i was classified as profoundly deaf.but i believe that losing my hearing was one of the greatest gifts i've ever received. you see, i get to experience the world in a unique way. and i believe that these unique experiences that people with disabilities have is what's going to help us make and design a better world for everyone — both for people with and without disabilities.i used to be a disability rights lawyer, and i spent a lot of my time focused on enforcing the law, ensuring that accommodations were made. and then i had to quickly learn international policy, because i was asked to work on the un convention that protects people with disabilities. as the leader of the ngo there, i spent most of my energy trying to convince people about the capabilities of people with disabilities. but somewhere along the way, and after many career transitions that my parents weren't so happy about — i stumbled upon a solution that i believe may be an even more powerful tool to solve some of the world's greatest problems, disability or not. and that tool is called design thinking.design thinking is a process for innovation and problem solving. there are five steps. the first is defining the problem and understanding its constraints. the second is observing people in real-life situations and empathizing with them. third, throwing out hundreds of ideas — the more the better, the wilder the better. fourth, prototyping: gathering whatever you can, whatever you can find, to mimic your solution, to test it and to refine it. and finally, implementation: ensuring that the solution you came up with is sustainable.warren berger says that design thinking teaches us to look sideways, to reframe, to refine, to experiment and, probably most importantly, ask those stupid questions. design thinkers believe that everyone is creative. they believe in bringing people from multiple disciplines together, because they want to share multiple perspectives and bring them together and ultimately merge them to form something new.design thinking is such a successful and versatile tool that it has been applied in almost every industry. i saw the potential that it had for the issues i faced, so i decided to go back to school and get my master's in social design. this looks at how to use design to create positive change in the world. while i was there, i fell in love with woodworking. but what i quickly realized was that i was missing out on something. as you're working with a tool, right before it's about to kick back at you — which means the piece or the tool jumps back at you — it makes a sound. and i couldn't hear this sound. so i decided, why not try and solve it? my solution was a pair of safety glasses that were engineered to visually alert the user to pitch changes in the tool, before the human ear could pick it up. why hadn't tool designers thought of this before? two reasons: one, i was a beginner. i wasn't weighed down by expertise or conventional wisdom. the second is: i was deaf. my unique experience of the world helped inform my solution.and as i went on, i kept running into more and more solutions that were originally made for people with disabilities, and that ended up being picked up, embraced and loved by the mainstream, disability or not. this is an oxo potato peeler. it was originally designed for people with arthritis, but it was so comfortable, everybody loved it. text messaging: that was originally designed for people who are deaf. and as you know, everybody loves that, too. i started thinking: what if we changed our mindset? what if we started designing for disability first — not the norm? as you see, when we design for disability first, we often stumble upon solutions that are not only inclusive, but also are often better than when we design for the norm.and this excites me, because this means that the energy it takes to accommodate someone with a disability can be leveraged, molded and played with as a force for creativity and innovation. this moves us from the mindset of trying to change the hearts and the deficiency mindset of tolerance, to becoming an alchemist, the type of magician that this world so desperately needs to solve some of its greatest problems.now, i also believe that people with disabilities have great potential to be designers within this design-thinking process. without knowing it, from a very early age, i've been a design thinker, fine-tuning my skills. design thinkers are, by nature, problem solvers. so imagine listening to a conversation and only understanding 50 percent of what is said. you can't ask them to repeat every single word. they would just get frustrated with you. so without even realizing it, my solution was to take the muffled sound i heard, that was the beat, and turn it into a rhythm and place it with the lips i read. years later, someone commented that my writing had a rhythm to it. well, this is because i experience conversations as rhythms. i also became really, really good at failing. quite literally. my first semester in spanish, i got a d. but what i learned was that when i picked myself up and changed a few things around, eventually, i succeeded. similarly, design thinking encourages people to fail and fail often, because eventually, you will succeed. very few great innovations in this world have come from someone succeeding on the first try.i also experienced this lesson in sports. i'll never forget my coach saying to my mom, "if she just didn't have her hearing loss, she would be on the national team." but what my coach, and what i didn't even know at the time, was that my hearing loss actually helped me excel at sports. you see, when you lose your hearing, not only do you adapt your behavior, but you also adapt your physical senses. one example of this is that my visual attention span increased. imagine a soccer player, coming down the left flank. imagine being goalkeeper, like i was, and the ball is coming down the left flank. a person with normal hearing would have the visual perspective of this. i had the benefit of a spectrum this wide. so i picked up the players over here, that were moving about and coming down the field. and i picked them up quicker, so that if the ball was passed, i could reposition myself and be ready for that shot.so as you can see, i've been a design thinker for nearly all my life. my observation skills have been honed so that i pick up on things that others would never pick up on. my constant need to adapt has made me a great ideator and problem solver. and i've often had to do this within limitations and constraints. this is something that designers also have to deal with frequently.my work most recently took me to haiti. design thinkers often seek out extreme situations, because that often informs some of their best designs. and haiti — it was like a perfect storm.i lived and worked with 300 deaf individuals that were relocated after the 2010 earthquake. but five and a half years later, there still was no electricity; there still was no safe drinking water; there were still no job opportunities; there was still rampant crime, and it went unpunished. international aid organizations came one by one. but they came with pre-determined solutions. they didn't come ready to observe and to adapt based on the community's needs. one organization gave them goats and chickens. but they didn't realize that there was so much hunger in that community, that when the deaf went to sleep at night and couldn't hear, people broke into their yards and their homes and stole these chickens and goats, and eventually they were all gone.now, if that organization had taken the time to observe deaf people, to observe the community, they would have realized their problem and perhaps they would have come up with a solution, something like a solar light, lighting up a secure pen to put them in at night to ensure their safety.you don't have to be a design thinker to insert the ideas i've shared with you today. you are creative. you are a designer — everyone is. let people like me help you. let people with disabilities help you look sideways, and in the process, solve some of the greatest problems.that's it. thank you. <title = "3 lessons on success from an Arab businesswoman">
<tags = "['Middle East', 'business', 'leadership', 'women', 'women in business', 'work']">
<occupation = "Women's advocate">
"mom, who are these people?" it was an innocent question from my young daughter alia around the time when she was three. we were walking along with my husband in one of abu dhabi's big fancy malls. alia was peering at a huge poster standing tall in the middle of the mall. it featured the three rulers of the united arab emirates. as she tucked in my side, i bent down and explained that these were the rulers of the uae who had worked hard to develop their nation and preserve its unity. she asked, "mom, why is it that here where we live, and back in lebanon, where grandma and grandpa live, we never see the pictures of powerful women on the walls? is it because women are not important?"this is probably the hardest question i've had to answer in my years as a parent and in my 16-plus years of professional life, for that matter. i had grown up in my hometown in lebanon, the younger of two daughters to a very hard-working pilot and director of operations for the lebanese airlines and a super-supportive stay-at-home mom and grandma. my father had encouraged my sister and i to pursue our education even though our culture emphasized at the time that it was sons and not daughters who should be professionally motivated. i was one of very few girls of my generation who left home at 18 to study abroad. my father didn't have a son, and so i, in a sense, became his.fast-forward a couple of decades, and i hope i didn't do too badly in making my father proud of his would-be son. as i got my bachelor's and phd in electrical engineering, did r&d in the uk, then consulting in the middle east, i have always been in male-dominated environments. truth be told, i have never found a role model i could truly identify with. my mother's generation wasn't into professional leadership. there were some encouraging men along the way, but none knew the demands and pressures i was facing, pressures that got particularly acute when i had my own two beautiful children. and although western women love to give us poor, oppressed arab women advice, they live different lives with different constraints.so arab women of my generation have had to become our own role models. we have had to juggle more than arab men, and we have had to face more cultural rigidity than western women. as a result, i would like to think that we poor, oppressed women actually have some useful, certainly hard-earned lessons to share, lessons that might turn out useful for anyone wishing to thrive in the modern world. here are three of mine.["convert their sh*t into your fuel."] there is this word that everybody is touting as the key to success: resilience. well, what exactly is resilience, and how do you develop it? i believe resilience is simply the ability to transform shit into fuel.in my previous job, well before my current firm, i was working with a man we will call john. i had teamed up with john and was working hard, hoping he would notice how great i was and that he would come to support my case to make partner at the firm. i was, in addition to delivering on my consulting projects, writing passionately on the topic of women economic empowerment. one day, i got to present my research to a roomful of mba students. john was part of the audience listening for the first time to the details of my study. as i proceeded with my presentation, i could see john in the corner of my eye. he had turned a dark shade of pink and had slid under his chair in apparent shame.i finished my presentation to an applauding audience and we rushed out and jumped into the car. there he exploded. "what you did up there was unacceptable! you are a consultant, not an activist!" i said, "john, i don't understand. i presented a couple of gender parity indices, and some conclusions about the arab world. yes, we do happen to be today at the bottom of the index, but what is it that i said or presented that was not factual?"to which he replied, "the whole premise of your study is wrong. what you are doing is dangerous and will break the social fabric of our society." he paused, then added, "when women have children, their place is in the home."time stood still for a long while, and all i could think and repeat in the chaos of my brain was: "you can forget about that partnership, leila. it's just never going to happen." it took me a couple of days to fully absorb this incident and its implications, but once i did, i reached three conclusions. one, that these were his issues, his complexes. there may be many like him in our society, but i would never let their issues become mine. two, that i needed another sponsor, and fast. i got one, by the way, and boy, was he great. and three, that i would get to show john what women with children can do. i apply this lesson equally well to my personal life. as i have progressed in my career, i have received many words of encouragement, but i have also often been met by women, men and couples who have clearly had an issue with my husband and i having chosen the path of a dual-career couple.so you get this well-meaning couple who tells you straight out at a family gathering or at a friends gathering, that, come on, you must know you're not a great mom, given how much you're investing in your career, right? i would lie if i said these words didn't hurt. my children are the most precious thing to me, and the thought that i could be failing them in any way is intolerable. but just like i did with john, i quickly reminded myself that these were their issues, their complexes. so instead of replying, i gave back one of my largest smiles as i saw, in flashing light, the following sign in my mind's eye.[be happy, it drives people crazy.] you see, as a young woman in these situations, you have two options. you can either decide to internalize these negative messages that are being thrown at you, to let them make you feel like a failure, like success is way too hard to ever achieve, or you can choose to see that others' negativity is their own issue, and instead transform it into your own personal fuel. i have learned to always go for option two, and i have found that it has taken me from strength to strength. and it's true what they say: success is the best revenge.some women in the middle east are lucky enough to be married to someone supportive of their career. correction: i should say "smart enough," because who you marry is your own choice, and you'd better marry someone supportive if you plan to have a long career. still today, the arab man is not an equal contributor in the home. it's simply not expected by our society, and even frowned upon as not very manly. as for the arab woman, our society still assumes that her primary source of happiness should be the happiness and prosperity of her children and husband. she mostly exists for her family. things are changing, but it will take time.for now, it means that the professional arab woman has to somehow maintain the perfect home, make sure that her children's every need is being taken care of and manage her demanding career. to achieve this, i have found the hard way that you need to apply your hard-earned professional skills to your personal life. you need to work your life.here is how i do this in my personal life. one thing to know about the middle east is that nearly every family has access to affordable domestic help. the challenge therefore becomes how to recruit effectively. just like i would in my business life, i have based the selection of who would support me with my children while i'm at work on a strong referral. cristina had worked for four years with my sister and the quality of her work was well-established. she is now an integral member of our family, having been with us since alia was six months old. she makes sure that the house is running smoothly while i'm at work, and i make sure to empower her in the most optimal conditions for her and my children, just like i would my best talent at work. this lesson applies whatever your childcare situation, whether an au pair, nursery, part-time nanny that you share with someone else. choose very carefully, and empower.if you look at my calendar, you will see every working day one and a half hours from 7pm to 8:30pm uae time blocked and called "family time." this is sacred time. i have done this ever since alia was a baby. i do everything in my power to protect this time so that i can be home by then to spend quality time with my children, asking them about their day, checking up on homework, reading them a bedtime story and giving them lots of kisses and cuddles. if i'm traveling, in whatever the time zone, i use skype to connect with my children even if i am miles away. our son burhan is five years old, and he's learning to read and do basic maths.here's another confession: i have found that our daughter is actually more successful at teaching him these skills than i am. it started as a game, but alia loves playing teacher to her little brother, and i have found that these sessions actually improve burhan's literacy, increase alia's sense of responsibility, and strengthen the bonding between them, a win-win all around.the successful arab women i know have each found their unique approach to working their life as they continue to shoulder the lion's share of responsibility in the home.but this is not just about surviving in your dual role as a career woman and mother. this is also about being in the present. when i am with my children, i try to leave work out of our lives. instead of worrying about how many minutes i can spend with them every day, i focus on turning these minutes into memorable moments, moments where i'm seeing my kids, hearing them, connecting with them.["join forces, don't compete."]arab women of my generation have not been very visible in the public eye as they grew up. this explains, i think, to some extent, why you find so few women in politics in the arab world. the upside of this, however, is that we have spent a lot of time developing a social skill behind the scenes, in coffee shops, in living rooms, on the phone, a social skill that is very important to success: networking. i would say the average arab woman has a large network of friends and acquaintances. the majority of those are also women.in the west, it seems like ambitious women often compare themselves to other women hoping to be noticed as the most successful woman in the room. this leads to the much-spoken-about competitive behavior between professional women. if there's only room for one woman at the top, then you can't make room for others, much less lift them up.arab women, generally speaking, have not fallen for this psychological trap. faced with a patriarchal society, they have found that by helping each other out, all benefit.in my previous job, i was the most senior woman in the middle east, so one could think that investing in my network of female colleagues couldn't bring many benefits and that i should instead invest my time developing my relationships with male seniors and peers. yet two of my biggest breaks came through the support of other women. it was the head of marketing who initially suggested i be considered as a young global leader to the world economic forum. she was familiar with my media engagements and my publications, and when she was asked to voice her opinion, she highlighted my name. it was a young consultant, a saudi lady and friend, who helped me sell my first project in saudi arabia, a market i was finding hard to gain traction in as a woman. she introduced me to a client, and that introduction led to the first of very many projects for me in saudi. today, i have two senior women on my team, and i see making them successful as key to my own success. women continue to advance in the world, not fast enough, but we're moving.the arab world, too, is making progress, despite many recent setbacks. just this year, the uae appointed five new female ministers to its cabinet, for a total of eight female ministers. that's nearly 28 percent of the cabinet, and more than many developed countries can claim. this is today my daughter alia's favorite picture. this is the result, no doubt, of great leadership, but it is also the result of strong arab women not giving up and continuously pushing the boundaries. it is the result of arab women deciding every day like me to convert shit into fuel, to work their life to keep work out of their life, and to join forces and not compete.as i look to the future, my hopes for my daughter when she stands on this stage some 20, 30 years from now are that she be as proud to call herself her mother's daughter as her father's daughter.my hopes for my son are that by then, the expression "her mother's son" or "mama's boy" would have taken on a completely different meaning.thank you. <title = "What will be the next big scientific breakthrough?">
<tags = "['aging', 'curiosity', 'exploration', 'science']">
<occupation = "Author, futurist, innovator">
tonight, i'm going to share with you my passion for science. i'm not talking about science that takes baby steps. i'm talking about science that takes enormous leaps. i'm talking darwin, i'm talking einstein, i'm talking revolutionary science that turns the world on its head. in a moment, i'm going to talk about two ideas that might do this. i say "might" because, with revolutionary ideas, most are flat wrong, and even those that are right seldom have the impact that we want them to have.to explain why i picked two ideas in particular, i'm going to start with a mystery. 1847, vienna, austria. ignaz semmelweis was a somber, compulsively thorough doctor who ran two maternity clinics. they were identical except for one thing. women were dying of high fevers soon after giving birth three times more often at one of the clinics than at the other. trying to figure out what the difference was that caused this, semmelweis looked at everything he could. sanitation? no. medical procedures? no. air flow? no.the puzzle went unsolved until he happened to autopsy a doctor who died of an infected scalpel cut. the doctor's symptoms were identical to those of the mothers who were dying. how was that possible? how could a male doctor get the same thing as new mothers? semmelweis reconstructed everything the doctor had done right before he got sick, and he discovered that he'd been autopsying a corpse. had something gotten in his wound that killed him? with growing excitement, semmelweis looked for any connection he could between dead bodies in the morgue and dead mothers in his delivery room, and he found it. it turned out that at the hospital with the high death rate, but not the others, doctors delivered babies immediately after autopsying corpses in the morgue. aha! corpses were contaminating the doctors' hands and killing his mothers. so he ordered the doctors to sterilize their hands, and the deaths stopped. dr. ignaz semmelweis had discovered infectious disease.but the doctors of the day thought he was crazy, because they knew, and had for hundreds of years, that odorous vapors called miasmas caused disease, not these hypothetical particles that you couldn't see. it took 20 years for frenchman louis pasteur to prove that semmelweis was right. pasteur was an agricultural chemist who tried to figure out why milk and beer spoiled so often. he found that bacteria were the culprits. he also found that bacteria could kill people in exactly the same way that semmelweis's patients were dying.we now look at what i want to talk about tonight, in two ideas. we saw it with semmelweis, that he was a revolutionary. he did it for two reasons. one, he opened our eyes to a completely new world. we'd known since the 1680s about bacteria. we just didn't know that bacteria killed people. and he also demolished fond ideas that people kept close to their heart. miasmas didn't kill people. bacteria killed people.so this brings me to the two ideas i want to talk about tonight. one has opened our eyes to a completely new universe, and the other attacks long-held beliefs.let's get started with dr. eric betzig. he's a physicist who has opened our eyes to an entirely new world by violating the laws of physics. betzig is a true rebel. he quit a job at prestigious bell laboratory inventing new microscopes for biology because he thought scientists were taking his brilliant inventions and doing lousy work with them. so he became a househusband, but he never lost his passion for figuring out how to get microscopes to see finer and finer details than had ever been seen before or ever could be seen. this is crucial if we're ever going to understand how cells work, and how cancer works, and how something 150th the size of a head of a pin can do all these amazing things, like make proteins and move charges around and all of those things.there's just one problem. there's this thing called the law of physics, and part of the law of physics is the thing called the diffraction limit. the diffraction limit is kind of like when you go to a doctor's office, you can only see so far down, no matter how good glasses you have.this was a so-called impossible problem. but one of betzig's friends figured out how to take a tiny molecule that was smaller than the best microscope could see and get it to light up and fluoresce. "aha!" betzig said. "i think maybe the laws of physics are not so unbreakable after all."so he lashed together a microscope in his friend's living room. he had no laboratory. this revolutionary instrument got different protein molecules to light up in different colors, and with a computer, he was able to turn very, very fuzzy blurs into very sharp dots and produce images of unprecedented and startling clarity.for this work, last year, eric betzig won the nobel prize. why? because now we can see with unprecedented detail things that we never had seen before, and now doctors can get a better handle on things like cancer.but do you think betzig was satisfied there? no. he wanted movies. the problem was that even the genius microscopes that he invented were just too slow. so what did he do? he came up with a 200-year-old idea called moiré patterns. so the way that works is if you take two very, very fine patterns and you move them across each other, you will see a gross pattern that a microscope can see that otherwise you would not be able to see. so he applied this technique to taking a really blurry image of a cell and moving lots of structured light patterns across it until this cell became crystal clear. and here is the result: a mysterious new world, full of strange things zipping around doing things that we don't know what they're doing. but when we figure it out, we'll have a better handle on life itself.for example, those green globs that you see? those things are called clathrins. they're molecules that protect other molecules as they move through a cell. unfortunately, viruses sometimes hijack those to infect cells. also, you see those little squiggly wormlike things moving around? those are actin molecules. unfortunately, viruses also climb down those things to get into the cell nucleus to replicate themselves and make you sick.now that we can look at movies of what's actually going on deep inside a cell, we have a much better chance of curing viral diseases like aids.so when you look at a movie like this, it's very clear that betzig has opened our eyes to a completely new world. but he hasn't shattered any cherished beliefs.that leads us to dr. aubrey de grey at cambridge. de grey definitely has scientists squirming with an interesting idea: we can be immortal. we can beat aging. now, most scientists think he's a crackpot. any biology 101 student knows that aging is an inevitable consequence of living. for example, when we eat, we take in food and we metabolize it, and that throws off what we call free radicals. you might have heard of those. also known as oxygen ions, those bind to our dna, cause it to mutate, and cause us to get old and lose our hair. it's just like, no, it's exactly like oxygen binding to iron and making it rust. so you age because you rust out. oh, and scientists also know there is something called immortality: in cancer cells. so if you stop aging, all of you are going to turn into giant walking malignant tumors.these are cherished beliefs, but could de grey be on to something? i think he deserves a closer look. first of all, i have a really hard time seeing him as a crackpot. yeah, he started off life as a computer scientist, not a biologist, but he earned a phd in biology from cambridge, and he has published some very significant work on mitochondrial dna and a bunch of other stuff. secondly, he started an antiaging foundation that has identified seven different causes of aging, to me, that seem very plausible, and he is hot in pursuit of fixes for every single one of them. for example, one of the reasons we age is that our mitochondrial dna mutates, and we get kind of old and our cells lose energy. he believes, and he's made a convincing case, that using viruses we can do gene therapy, fix that dna and rejuvenate our cells.one more thing. we have an existent proof that extreme longevity is possible. bristlecone pine trees live 5,000 years, and some lobsters don't age at all.now, this doesn't mean that de grey is going to revolutionize our lifespans. i mean, after all, we're not trees, and most of us are not lobsters. but i've got to believe that there are darwins and einsteins out there, and i'll tell you why. consider this: there are seven times more people alive today than during darwin's time. there are four times as many people alive today as einstein. when you consider that the proportion of scientists in the population has skyrocketed, there are now seven million scientists. i've got to believe, and i do believe, that there's one of them out there who is working right now in obscurity to rock our lives, and i don't know about you, but i can't wait to be rocked.thank you. <title = "Nature is everywhere -- we just need to learn to see it">
<tags = "['Anthropocene', 'Natural resources', 'agriculture', 'animals', 'biodiversity', 'children', 'climate change', 'ecology', 'environment', 'garden', 'green', 'life', 'nature', 'parenting', 'plants', 'sustainability', 'teaching', 'trees']">
<occupation = "Environmental writer">
we are stealing nature from our children. now, when i say this, i don't mean that we are destroying nature that they will have wanted us to preserve, although that is unfortunately also the case. what i mean here is that we've started to define nature in a way that's so purist and so strict that under the definition we're creating for ourselves, there won't be any nature left for our children when they're adults. but there's a fix for this. so let me explain.right now, humans use half of the world to live, to grow their crops and their timber, to pasture their animals. if you added up all the human beings, we would weigh 10 times as much as all the wild mammals put together. we cut roads through the forest. we have added little plastic particles to the sand on ocean beaches. we've changed the chemistry of the soil with our artificial fertilizers. and of course, we've changed the chemistry of the air. so when you take your next breath, you'll be breathing in 42 percent more carbon dioxide than if you were breathing in 1750. so all of these changes, and many others, have come to be kind of lumped together under this rubric of the "anthropocene." and this is a term that some geologists are suggesting we should give to our current epoch, given how pervasive human influence has been over it. now, it's still just a proposed epoch, but i think it's a helpful way to think about the magnitude of human influence on the planet.so where does this put nature? what counts as nature in a world where everything is influenced by humans?so 25 years ago, environmental writer bill mckibben said that because nature was a thing apart from man and because climate change meant that every centimeter of the earth was altered by man, then nature was over. in fact, he called his book "the end of nature."i disagree with this. i just disagree with this. i disagree with this definition of nature, because, fundamentally, we are animals. right? like, we evolved on this planet in the context of all the other animals with which we share a planet, and all the other plants, and all the other microbes. and so i think that nature is not that which is untouched by humanity, man or woman. i think that nature is anywhere where life thrives, anywhere where there are multiple species together, anywhere that's green and blue and thriving and filled with life and growing. and under that definition, things look a little bit different.now, i understand that there are certain parts of this nature that speak to us in a special way. places like yellowstone, or the mongolian steppe, or the great barrier reef or the serengeti. places that we think of as kind of edenic representations of a nature before we screwed everything up. and in a way, they are less impacted by our day to day activities. many of these places have no roads or few roads, so on, like such. but ultimately, even these edens are deeply influenced by humans.now, let's just take north america, for example, since that's where we're meeting. so between about 15,000 years ago when people first came here, they started a process of interacting with the nature that led to the extinction of a big slew of large-bodied animals, from the mastodon to the giant ground sloth, saber-toothed cats, all of these cool animals that unfortunately are no longer with us. and when those animals went extinct, you know, the ecosystems didn't stand still. massive ripple effects changed grasslands into forests, changed the composition of forest from one tree to another. so even in these edens, even in these perfect-looking places that seem to remind us of a past before humans, we're essentially looking at a humanized landscape. not just these prehistoric humans, but historical humans, indigenous people all the way up until the moment when the first colonizers showed up. and the case is the same for the other continents as well. humans have just been involved in nature in a very influential way for a very long time.now, just recently, someone told me,"oh, but there are still wild places."and i said, "where? where? i want to go."and he said, "the amazon."and i was like, "oh, the amazon. i was just there. it's awesome. national geographic sent me to manú national park, which is in the peruvian amazon, but it's a big chunk of rainforest, uncleared, no roads, protected as a national park, one of the most, in fact, biodiverse parks in the world. and when i got in there with my canoe, what did i find, but people. people have been living there for hundreds and thousands of years. people live there, and they don't just float over the jungle. they have a meaningful relationship with the landscape. they hunt. they grow crops. they domesticate crops. they use the natural resources to build their houses, to thatch their houses. they even make pets out of animals that we consider to be wild animals. these people are there and they're interacting with the environment in a way that's really meaningful and that you can see in the environment.now, i was with an anthropologist on this trip, and he told me, as we were floating down the river, he said, "there are no demographic voids in the amazon." this statement has really stuck with me, because what it means is that the whole amazon is like this. there's people everywhere. and many other tropical forests are the same, and not just tropical forests. people have influenced ecosystems in the past, and they continue to influence them in the present, even in places where they're harder to notice.so, if all of the definitions of nature that we might want to use that involve it being untouched by humanity or not having people in it, if all of those actually give us a result where we don't have any nature, then maybe they're the wrong definitions. maybe we should define it by the presence of multiple species, by the presence of a thriving life.now, if we do it that way, what do we get? well, it's this kind of miracle. all of a sudden, there's nature all around us. all of a sudden, we see this monarch caterpillar munching on this plant, and we realize that there it is, and it's in this empty lot in chattanooga. and look at this empty lot. i mean, there's, like, probably, a dozen, minimum, plant species growing there, supporting all kinds of insect life, and this is a completely unmanaged space, a completely wild space. this is a kind of wild nature right under our nose, that we don't even notice.and there's an interesting little paradox, too. so this nature, this kind of wild, untended part of our urban, peri-urban, suburban agricultural existence that flies under the radar, it's arguably more wild than a national park, because national parks are very carefully managed in the 21st century. crater lake in southern oregon, which is my closest national park, is a beautiful example of a landscape that seems to be coming out of the past. but they're managing it carefully. one of the issues they have now is white bark pine die-off. white bark pine is a beautiful, charismatic — i'll say it's a charismatic megaflora that grows up at high altitude — and it's got all these problems right now with disease. there's a blister rust that was introduced, bark beetle. so to deal with this, the park service has been planting rust-resistant white bark pine seedlings in the park, even in areas that they are otherwise managing as wilderness. and they're also putting out beetle repellent in key areas as i saw last time i went hiking there. and this kind of thing is really much more common than you would think. national parks are heavily managed. the wildlife is kept to a certain population size and structure. fires are suppressed. fires are started. non-native species are removed. native species are reintroduced. and in fact, i took a look, and banff national park is doing all of the things i just listed: suppressing fire, having fire, radio-collaring wolves, reintroducing bison. it takes a lot of work to make these places look untouched. and in a further irony, these places that we love the most are the places that we love a little too hard, sometimes. a lot of us like to go there, and because we're managing them to be stable in the face of a changing planet, they often are becoming more fragile over time.which means that they're the absolute worst places to take your children on vacation, because you can't do anything there. you can't climb the trees. you can't fish the fish. you can't make a campfire out in the middle of nowhere. you can't take home the pinecones. there are so many rules and restrictions that from a child's point of view, this is, like, the worst nature ever. because children don't want to hike through a beautiful landscape for five hours and then look at a beautiful view. that's maybe what we want to do as adults, but what kids want to do is hunker down in one spot and just tinker with it, just work with it, just pick it up, build a house, build a fort, do something like that.additionally, these sort of edenic places are often distant from where people live. and they're expensive to get to. they're hard to visit. so this means that they're only available to the elites, and that's a real problem. the nature conservancy did a survey of young people, and they asked them, how often do you spend time outdoors? and only two out of five spent time outdoors at least once a week. the other three out of five were just staying inside. and when they asked them why, what are the barriers to going outside, the response of 61 percent was, "there are no natural areas near my home."and this is crazy. this is just patently false. i mean, 71 percent of people in the us live within a 10-minute walk of a city park. and i'm sure the figures are similar in other countries. and that doesn't even count your back garden, the urban creek, the empty lot. everybody lives near nature. every kid lives near nature. we've just somehow forgotten how to see it. we've spent too much time watching david attenborough documentaries where the nature is really sexy — and we've forgotten how to see the nature that is literally right outside our door, the nature of the street tree.so here's an example: philadelphia. there's this cool elevated railway that you can see from the ground, that's been abandoned. now, this may sound like the beginning of the high line story in manhattan, and it's very similar, except they haven't developed this into a park yet, although they're working on it. so for now, it's still this little sort of secret wilderness in the heart of philadelphia, and if you know where the hole is in the chain-link fence, you can scramble up to the top and you can find this completely wild meadow just floating above the city of philadelphia. every single one of these plants grew from a seed that planted itself there. this is completely autonomous, self-willed nature. and it's right in the middle of the city. and they've sent people up there to do sort of biosurveys, and there are over 50 plant species up there. and it's not just plants. this is an ecosystem, a functioning ecosystem. it's creating soil. it's sequestering carbon. there's pollination going on. i mean, this is really an ecosystem.so scientists have started calling ecosystems like these "novel ecosystems," because they're often dominated by non-native species, and because they're just super weird. they're just unlike anything we've ever seen before. for so long, we dismissed all these novel ecosystems as trash. we're talking about regrown agricultural fields, timber plantations that are not being managed on a day-to-day basis, second-growth forests generally, the entire east coast, where after agriculture moved west, the forest sprung up. and of course, pretty much all of hawaii, where novel ecosystems are the norm, where exotic species totally dominate. this forest here has queensland maple, it has sword ferns from southeast asia. you can make your own novel ecosystem, too. it's really simple. you just stop mowing your lawn. ilkka hanski was an ecologist in finland, and he did this experiment himself. he just stopped mowing his lawn, and after a few years, he had some grad students come, and they did sort of a bio-blitz of his backyard, and they found 375 plant species, including two endangered species.so when you're up there on that future high line of philadelphia, surrounded by this wildness, surrounded by this diversity, this abundance, this vibrance, you can look over the side and you can see a local playground for a local school, and that's what it looks like. these children have, that — you know, under my definition, there's a lot of the planet that counts as nature, but this would be one of the few places that wouldn't count as nature. there's nothing there except humans, no other plants, no other animals. and what i really wanted to do was just, like, throw a ladder over the side and get all these kids to come up with me into this cool meadow. in a way, i feel like this is the choice that faces us. if we dismiss these new natures as not acceptable or trashy or no good, we might as well just pave them over. and in a world where everything is changing, we need to be very careful about how we define nature.in order not to steal it from our children, we have to do two things. first, we cannot define nature as that which is untouched. this never made any sense anyway. nature has not been untouched for thousands of years. and it excludes most of the nature that most people can visit and have a relationship with, including only nature that children cannot touch. which brings me to the second thing that we have to do, which is that we have to let children touch nature, because that which is untouched is unloved. we face some pretty grim environmental challenges on this planet. climate change is among them. there's others too: habitat loss is my favorite thing to freak out about in the middle of the night. but in order to solve them, we need people — smart, dedicated people — who care about nature. and the only way we're going to raise up a generation of people who care about nature is by letting them touch nature.i have a fort theory of ecology, fort theory of conservation. every ecologist i know, every conservation biologist i know, every conservation professional i know, built forts when they were kids. if we have a generation that doesn't know how to build a fort, we'll have a generation that doesn't know how to care about nature.and i don't want to be the one to tell this kid, who is on a special program that takes philadelphia kids from poor neighborhoods and takes them to city parks, i don't want to be the one to tell him that the flower he's holding is a non-native invasive weed that he should throw away as trash. i think i would much rather learn from this boy that no matter where this plant comes from, it is beautiful, and it deserves to be touched and appreciated.thank you. <title = "How to grow a forest in your backyard">
<tags = "['Natural resources', 'TED Fellows', 'botany', 'cities', 'design', 'ecology', 'engineering', 'entrepreneur', 'environment', 'future', 'garden', 'global development', 'green', 'microbes', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'plants', 'science', 'sustainability', 'trees', 'urban planning']">
<occupation = "Eco-entrepreneur">
this is a man-made forest. it can spread over acres and acres of area, or it could fit in a small space — as small as your house garden. each of these forests is just two years old. i have a forest in the backyard of my own house. it attracts a lot of biodiversity.(bird call)i wake up to this every morning, like a disney princess. i am an entrepreneur who facilitates the making of these forests professionally. we have helped factories, farms, schools, homes, resorts, apartment buildings, public parks and even a zoo to have one of such forests. a forest is not an isolated piece of land where animals live together. a forest can be an integral part of our urban existence. a forest, for me, is a place so dense with trees that you just can't walk into it. it doesn't matter how big or small they are.most of the world we live in today was forest. this was before human intervention. then we built up our cities on those forests, like são paulo, forgetting that we belong to nature as well, as much as 8.4 million other species on the planet. our habitat stopped being our natural habitat. but not anymore for some of us. a few others and i today make these forests professionally — anywhere and everywhere.i'm an industrial engineer. i specialize in making cars. in my previous job at toyota, i learned how to convert natural resources into products. to give you an example, we would drip the sap out of a rubber tree, convert it into raw rubber and make a tire out of it — the product. but these products can never become a natural resource again. we separate the elements from nature and convert them into an irreversible state. that's industrial production.nature, on the other hand, works in a totally opposite way. the natural system produces by bringing elements together, atom by atom. all the natural products become a natural resource again. this is something which i learned when i made a forest in the backyard of my own house. and this was the first time i worked with nature, rather than against it. since then, we have made 75 such forests in 25 cities across the world. every time we work at a new place, we find that every single element needed to make a forest is available right around us. all we have to do is to bring these elements together and let nature take over.to make a forest we start with soil. we touch, feel and even taste it to identify what properties it lacks. if the soil is made up of small particles it becomes compact — so compact, that water cannot seep in. we mix some local biomass available around, which can help soil become more porous. water can now seep in. if the soil doesn't have the capacity to hold water, we will mix some more biomass — some water-absorbent material like peat or bagasse, so soil can hold this water and it stays moist.to grow, plants need water, sunlight and nutrition. what if the soil doesn't have any nutrition in it? we don't just add nutrition directly to the soil. that would be the industrial way. it goes against nature. we instead add microorganisms to the soil. they produce the nutrients in the soil naturally. they feed on the biomass we have mixed in the soil, so all they have to do is eat and multiply. and as their number grows, the soil starts breathing again. it becomes alive.we survey the native tree species of the place. how do we decide what's native or not? well, whatever existed before human intervention is native. that's the simple rule. we survey a national park to find the last remains of a natural forest. we survey the sacred groves, or sacred forests around old temples. and if we don't find anything at all, we go to museums to see the seeds or wood of trees existing there a long time ago. we research old paintings, poems and literature from the place, to identify the tree species belonging there.once we know our trees, we divide them in four different layers: shrub layer, sub-tree layer, tree layer and canopy layer. we fix the ratios of each layer, and then we decide the percentage of each tree species in the mix. if we are making a fruit forest, we increase the percentage of fruit-bearing trees. it could be a flowering forest, a forest that attracts a lot of birds or bees, or it could simply be a native, wild evergreen forest.we collect the seeds and germinate saplings out of them. we make sure that trees belonging to the same layer are not planted next to each other, or they will fight for the same vertical space when they grow tall. we plant the saplings close to each other. on the surface, we spread a thick layer of mulch, so when it's hot outside the soil stays moist. when it's cold, frost formation happens only on the mulch, so soil can still breathe while it's freezing outside. the soil is very soft — so soft, that roots can penetrate into it easily, rapidly.initially, the forest doesn't seem like it's growing, but it's growing under the surface. in the first three months, roots reach a depth of one meter. these roots form a mesh, tightly holding the soil. microbes and fungi live throughout this network of roots. so if some nutrition is not available in the vicinity of a tree, these microbes are going to get the nutrition to the tree. whenever it rains, magically, mushrooms appear overnight. and this means the soil below has a healthy fungal network.once these roots are established, forest starts growing on the surface. as the forest grows we keep watering it — for the next two to three years, we water the forest. we want to keep all the water and soil nutrition only for our trees, so we remove the weeds growing on the ground. as this forest grows, it blocks the sunlight. eventually, the forest becomes so dense that sunlight can't reach the ground anymore. weeds cannot grow now, because they need sunlight as well.at this stage, every single drop of water that falls into the forest doesn't evaporate back into the atmosphere. this dense forest condenses the moist air and retains its moisture. we gradually reduce and eventually stop watering the forest. and even without watering, the forest floor stays moist and sometimes even dark. now, when a single leaf falls on this forest floor, it immediately starts decaying. this decayed biomass forms humus, which is food for the forest. as the forest grows, more leaves fall on the surface — it means more humus is produced, it means more food so the forest can grow still bigger. and this forest keeps growing exponentially.once established, these forests are going to regenerate themselves again and again — probably forever. in a natural forest like this, no management is the best management. it's a tiny jungle party. this forest grows as a collective. if the same trees — same species — would have been planted independently, it wouldn't grow so fast. and this is how we create a 100-year-old forest in just 10 years.thank you very much. <title = "My love letter to cosplay">
<tags = "['adventure', 'art', 'beauty', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'creativity', 'design', 'entertainment', 'humor', 'identity', 'materials', 'performance', 'personality', 'storytelling']">
<occupation = "Maker, critical thinker">
there's this fact that i love that i read somewhere once, that one of the things that's contributed to homo sapiens' success as a species is our lack of body hair — that our hairlessness, our nakedness combined with our invention of clothing, gives us the ability to modulate our body temperature and thus be able to survive in any climate we choose. and now we've evolved to the point where we can't survive without clothing. and it's more than just utility, now it's a communication. everything that we choose to put on is a narrative, a story about where we've been, what we're doing, who we want to be.i was a lonely kid. i didn't have an easy time finding friends to play with, and i ended up making a lot of my own play. i made a lot of my own toys. it began with ice cream. there was a baskin-robbins in my hometown, and they served ice cream from behind the counter in these giant, five-gallon, cardboard tubs. and someone told me — i was eight years old — someone told me that when they were done with those tubs, they washed them out and kept them in the back, and if you asked they would give you one. it took me a couple of weeks to work up the courage, but i did, and they did. they gave me one — i went home with this beautiful cardboard tub. i was trying to figure out what i could do with this exotic material — metal ring, top and bottom. i started turning it over in my head, and i realized, "wait a minute — my head actually fits inside this thing." yeah, i cut a hole out, i put some acetate in there and i made myself a space helmet. i needed a place to wear the space helmet, so i found a refrigerator box a couple blocks from home. i pushed it home, and in my parents' guest room closet, i turned it into a spaceship. i started with a control panel out of cardboard. i cut a hole for a radar screen and put a flashlight underneath it to light it. i put a view screen up, which i offset off the back wall — and this is where i thought i was being really clever — without permission, i painted the back wall of the closet black and put a star field, which i lit up with some christmas lights i found in the attic, and i went on some space missions.a couple years later, the movie "jaws" came out. i was way too young to see it, but i was caught up in "jaws" fever, like everyone else in america at the time. there was a store in my town that had a "jaws" costume in their window, and my mom must have overheard me talking to someone about how awesome i thought this costume was, because a couple days before halloween, she blew my freaking mind by giving me this "jaws" costume.now, i recognize it's a bit of a trope for people of a certain age to complain that kids these days have no idea how good they have it, but let me just show you a random sampling of entry-level kids' costumes you can buy online right now ... ... and this is the "jaws" costume my mom bought for me. this is a paper-thin shark face and a vinyl bib with the poster of "jaws" on it. and i loved it.a couple years later, my dad took me to a film called "excalibur." i actually got him to take me to it twice, which is no small thing, because it is a hard, r-rated film. but it wasn't the blood and guts or the boobs that made me want to go see it again. they helped — it was the armor. the armor in "excalibur" was intoxicatingly beautiful to me. these were literally knights in shining, mirror-polished armor. and moreover, the knights in "excalibur" wear their armor everywhere. all the time — they wear it at dinner, they wear it to bed. i was like, "are they reading my mind? i want to wear armor all the time!" so i went back to my favorite material, the gateway drug for making, corrugated cardboard, and i made myself a suit of armor, replete with the neck shields and a white horse. now that i've oversold it, here's a picture of the armor that i made. now, this is only the first suit of armor i made inspired by "excalibur." a couple of years later, i convinced my dad to embark on making me a proper suit of armor. over about a month, he graduated me from cardboard to roofing aluminum called flashing and still, one of my all-time favorite attachment materials, pop rivets. we carefully, over that month, constructed an articulated suit of aluminum armor with compound curves. we drilled holes in the helmet so that i could breathe, and i finished just in time for halloween and wore it to school. now, this is the one thing in this talk that i don't have a slide to show you, because no photo exists of this armor. i did wear it to school, there was a yearbook photographer patrolling the halls, but he never found me, for reasons that are about to become clear.there were things i didn't anticipate about wearing a complete suit of aluminum armor to school. in third period math, i was standing in the back of class, and i'm standing in the back of class because the armor did not allow me to sit down. this is the first thing i didn't anticipate. and then my teacher looks at me sort of concerned about halfway through the class and says, "are you feeling ok?" i'm thinking, "are you kidding? am i feeling ok? i'm wearing a suit of armor! i am having the time of my —" and i'm just about to tell her how great i feel, when the classroom starts to list to the left and disappear down this long tunnel, and then i woke up in the nurse's office. i had passed out from heat exhaustion, wearing the armor. and when i woke up, i wasn't embarrassed about having passed out in front of my class, i was wondering, "who took my armor? where's my armor?"ok, fast-forward a whole bunch of years, some colleagues and i get hired to make a show for discovery channel, called "mythbusters." and over 14 years, i learn on the job how to build experimental methodologies and how to tell stories about them for television. i also learn early on that costuming can play a key role in this storytelling.i use costumes to add humor, comedy, color and narrative clarity to the stories we're telling. and then we do an episode called "dumpster diving," and i learn a little bit more about the deeper implications of what costuming means to me. in the episode "dumpster diving," the question we were trying to answer is: is jumping into a dumpster as safe as the movies would lead you to believe? the episode was going to have two distinct parts to it. one was where we get trained to jump off buildings by a stuntman into an air bag. and the second was the graduation to the experiment: we'd fill a dumpster full of material and we'd jump into it. i wanted to visually separate these two elements, and i thought, "well, for the first part we're training, so we should wear sweatsuits — oh! let's put 'stunt trainee' on the back of the sweatsuits. that's for the training." but for the second part, i wanted something really visually striking — "i know! i'll dress as neo from 'the matrix.'" so i went to haight street. i bought some beautiful knee-high, buckle boots. i found a long, flowing coat on ebay. i got sunglasses, which i had to wear contact lenses in order to wear. the day of the experiment shoot comes up, and i step out of my car in this costume, and my crew takes a look at me ... and start suppressing their church giggles. they're like, "(laugh sound)." and i feel two distinct things at this moment. i feel total embarrassment over the fact that it's so nakedly clear to my crew that i'm completely into wearing this costume. but the producer in my mind reminds myself that in the high-speed shot in slow-mo, that flowing coat is going to look beautiful behind me. five years into the "mythbusters" run, we got invited to appear at san diego comic-con. i'd known about comic-con for years and never had time to go. this was the big leagues — this was costuming mecca. people fly in from all over the world to show their amazing creations on the floor in san diego. and i wanted to participate. i decided that i would put together an elaborate costume that covered me completely, and i would walk the floor of san diego comic-con anonymously. the costume i chose? hellboy. that's not my costume, that's actually hellboy. but i spent months assembling the most screen-accurate hellboy costume i could, from the boots to the belt to the pants to the right hand of doom. i found a guy who made a prosthetic hellboy head and chest and i put them on. i even had contact lenses made in my prescription. i wore it onto the floor at comic-con and i can't even tell you how balls hot it was in that costume. sweating! i should've remembered this. i'm sweating buckets and the contact lenses hurt my eyes, and none of it matters because i'm totally in love. not just with the process of putting on this costume and walking the floor, but also with the community of other costumers. it's not called costuming at cons, it's called "cosplay." now ostensibly, cosplay means people who dress up as their favorite characters from film and television and especially anime, but it is so much more than that. these aren't just people who find a costume and put it on — they mash them up. they bend them to their will. they change them to be the characters they want to be in those productions. they're super clever and genius. they let their freak flag fly and it's beautiful. but more than that, they rehearse their costumes. at comic-con or any other con, you don't just take pictures of people walking around. you go up and say, "hey, i like your costume, can i take your picture?" and then you give them time to get into their pose. they've worked hard on their pose to make their costume look great for your camera. and it's so beautiful to watch. and i take this to heart. at subsequent cons, i learn heath ledger's shambling walk as the joker from "the dark knight." i learn how to be a scary ringwraith from "lord of the rings," and i actually frighten some children. i learned that "hrr hrr hrr" — that head laugh that chewbacca does.and then i dressed up as no-face from "spirited away." if you don't know about "spirited away" and its director, hayao miyazaki, first of all, you're welcome. this is a masterpiece, and one of my all-time favorite films. it's about a young girl named chihiro who gets lost in the spirit world in an abandoned japanese theme park. and she finds her way back out again with the help of a couple of friends she makes — a captured dragon named haku and a lonely demon named no-face. no-face is lonely and he wants to make friends, and he thinks the way to do it is by luring them to him and producing gold in his hand. but this doesn't go very well, and so he ends up going on kind of a rampage until chihiro saves him, rescues him.so i put together a no-face costume, and i wore it on the floor at comic-con. and i very carefully practiced no-face's gestures. i resolved i would not speak in this costume at all. when people asked to take my picture, i would nod and i would shyly stand next to them. they would take the picture and then i would secret out from behind my robe a chocolate gold coin. and at the end of the photo process, i'd make it appear for them. ah, ah ah! — like that.and people were freaking out. "holy crap! gold from no-face! oh my god, this is so cool!" and i'm feeling and i'm walking the floor and it's fantastic. and about 15 minutes in something happens. somebody grabs my hand, and they put a coin back into it. and i think maybe they're giving me a coin as a return gift, but no, this is one of the coins that i'd given away. i don't know why. and i keep on going, i take some more pictures. and then it happens again. understand, i can't see anything inside this costume. i can see through the mouth — i can see people's shoes. i can hear what they're saying and i can see their feet. but the third time someone gives me back a coin, i want to know what's going on. so i sort of tilt my head back to get a better view, and what i see is someone walking away from me going like this. and then it hits me: it's bad luck to take gold from no-face. in the film "spirited away," bad luck befalls those who take gold from no-face.this isn't a performer-audience relationship; this is cosplay. we are, all of us on that floor, injecting ourselves into a narrative that meant something to us. and we're making it our own. we're connecting with something important inside of us. and the costumes are how we reveal ourselves to each other.thank you. <title = "A forgotten Space Age technology could change how we grow food">
<tags = "['agriculture', 'astrobiology', 'bacteria', 'big problems', 'business', 'environment', 'farming', 'food', 'future', 'global issues', 'innovation', 'life', 'microbes', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Sustainability crusader">
imagine you are a part of a crew of astronauts traveling to mars or some distant planet. the travel time could take a year or even longer. the space on board and the resources would be limited. so you and the crew would have to figure out how to produce food with minimal inputs. what if you could bring with you just a few packets of seeds, and grow crops in a matter of hours? and what if those crops would then make more seeds, enabling you to feed the entire crew with just those few packets of seeds for the duration of the trip?well, the scientists at nasa actually figured out a way to do this. what they came up with was actually quite interesting. it involved microorganisms, which are single-celled organisms. and they also used hydrogen from water. the types of microbes that they used were called hydrogenotrophs, and with these hydrogenotrophs, you can create a virtuous carbon cycle that would sustain life onboard a spacecraft. astronauts would breathe out carbon dioxide, that carbon dioxide would then be captured by the microbes and converted into a nutritious, carbon-rich crop. the astronauts would then eat that carbon-rich crop and exhale the carbon out in the form of carbon dioxide, which would then be captured by the microbes, to create a nutritious crop, which then would be exhaled in the form of carbon dioxide by the astronauts. so in this way, a closed-loop carbon cycle is created.so why is this important? we need carbon to survive as humans, and we get our carbon from food. on a long space journey, you simply wouldn't be able to pick up any carbon along the way, so you'd have to figure out how to recycle it on board.this is a clever solution, right? but the thing is, that research didn't really go anywhere. we haven't yet gone to mars. we haven't yet gone to another planet. and this was actually done in the '60s and '70s. so a colleague of mine, dr. john reed, and i, were interested, actually, in carbon recycling here on earth. we wanted to come up with technical solutions to address climate change. and we discovered this research by reading some papers published in the '60s — 1967 and later — articles about this work. and we thought it was a really good idea. so we said, well, earth is actually like a spaceship. we have limited space and limited resources, and on earth, we really do need to figure out how to recycle our carbon better.so we had the idea, can we take some of these nasa-type ideas and apply them to our carbon problem here on earth? could we cultivate these nasa-type microbes in order to make valuable products here on earth? we started a company to do it. and in that company, we discovered that these hydrogenotrophs — which i'll actually call nature's supercharged carbon recyclers — we found that they are a powerful class of microbes that had been largely overlooked and understudied, and that they could make some really valuable products.so we began cultivating these products, these microbes, in our lab. we found that we can make essential amino acids from carbon dioxide using these microbes. and we even made a protein-rich meal that has an amino acid profile similar to what you might find in some animal proteins. we began cultivating them even further, and we found that we can make oil. oils are used to manufacture many products. we made an oil that was similar to a citrus oil, which can be used for flavoring and for fragrances, but it also can be used as a biodegradable cleaner or even as a jet fuel. and we made an oil that's similar to palm oil. palm oil is used to manufacture a wide range of consumer and industrial goods.we began working with manufacturers to scale up this technology, and we're currently working with them to bring some of these products to market. we believe this type of technology can indeed help us profitably recycle carbon dioxide into valuable products — something that's beneficial for the planet but also beneficial for business. that's what we're doing today. but tomorrow, this type of technology and using these types of microbes actually could help us do something even greater if we take it to the next level. we believe that this type of technology can actually help us address an issue with agriculture and allow us to create a type of agriculture that's sustainable, that will allow us to scale to meet the demands of tomorrow.and why might we need a sustainable agriculture? well, actually, it is estimated that the population will reach about 10 billion by 2050, and we're projecting that we will need to increase food production by 70 percent. in addition, we will need many more resources and raw materials to make consumer goods and industrial goods. so how will we scale to meet that demand?well, modern agriculture simply cannot sustainably scale to meet that demand. there are a number of reasons why. one of them is that modern agriculture is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases. in fact, it emits more greenhouse gases than our cars, our trucks, our planes and our trains combined. another reason is that modern ag simply takes up a whole lot of land. we have cleared 19.4 million square miles for crops and livestock. what does that look like? well, that's roughly the size of south america and africa combined.let me give you a specific example. in indonesia, an amount of virgin rainforest was cleared totaling the size of approximately ireland, between 2000 and 2012. just think of all of the species, the diversity, that was removed in the process, whether plant life, insects or animal life. and a natural carbon sink was also removed.so let me make this real for you. this clearing happened primarily to make room for palm plantations. and as i mentioned before, palm oil is used to manufacture many products. in fact, it is estimated that over 50 percent of consumer products are manufactured using palm oil. and that includes things like ice cream, cookies ... it includes cooking oils. it also includes detergents, lotions, soaps. you and i both probably have numerous items in our kitchens and our bathrooms that were manufactured using palm oil. so you and i are direct beneficiaries of removed rainforests.modern ag has some problems, and we need solutions if we want to scale sustainably. i believe that microbes can be a part of the answer — specifically, these supercharged carbon recyclers. these supercharged carbon recyclers, like plants, serve as the natural recyclers in their ecosystems where they thrive. and they thrive in exotic places on earth, like hydrothermal vents and hot springs. in those ecosystems, they take carbon and recycle it into the nutrients needed for those ecosystems. and they're rich in nutrients, such as oils and proteins, minerals and carbohydrates.and actually, microbes are already an integral part of our everyday lives. if you enjoy a glass of pinot noir on a friday night, after a long, hard work week, then you are enjoying a product of microbes. if you enjoy a beer from your local microbrewery — a product of microbes. or bread, or cheese, or yogurt. these are all products of microbes. but the beauty and power associated with these supercharged carbon recyclers lies in the fact that they can actually produce in a matter of hours versus months. that means we can make crops much faster than we're making them today. they grow in the dark, so they can grow in any season and in any geography and any location. they can grow in containers that require minimal space. and we can get to a type of vertical agriculture. instead of our traditional horizontal agriculture that requires so much land, we can scale vertically, and as a result produce much more product per area.if we implement this type of approach and use these carbon recyclers, then we wouldn't have to remove any more rainforests to make the food and the goods that we consume. because, at a large scale, you can actually make 10,000 times more output per land area than you could — for instance, if you used soybeans — if you planted soybeans on that same area of land over a period of a year. ten thousand times over a period of a year. so this is what i mean by a new type of agriculture. and this is what i mean by developing a system that allows us to sustainably scale to meet the demands of 10 billion.and what would be the products of this new type of agriculture? well, we've already made a protein meal, so you can imagine something similar to a soybean meal, or even cornmeal, or wheat flour. we've already made oils, so you can imagine something similar to coconut oil or olive oil or soybean oil. so this type of crop can actually produce the nutrients that would give us pasta and bread, cakes, nutritional items of many sorts. furthermore, since oil is used to manufacture multiple other goods, industrial products and consumer products, you can imagine being able to make detergents, soaps, lotions, etc., using these types of crops.not only are we running out of space, but if we continue to operate under the status quo with modern agriculture, we run the risk of robbing our progeny of a beautiful planet. but it doesn't have to be this way. we can imagine a future of abundance. let us create systems that keep planet earth, our spaceship, not only from not crashing, but let us also develop systems and ways of living that will be beneficial to the lives of ourselves and the 10 billion that will be on this planet by 2050.thank you very much. <title = "A project of peace, painted across 50 buildings">
<tags = "['Egypt', 'Middle East', 'TED Fellows', 'art', 'beauty', 'community', 'painting', 'peace', 'sanitation', 'society']">
<occupation = "Artist">
so when i decided to create an art piece in manshiyat naser, the neighborhood of the cairo garbage collectors in egypt, i never thought this project would be the most amazing human experience that i would ever live. as an artist, i had this humanist intention of beautifying a poor and neglected neighborhood by bringing art to it and hopefully shining light on this isolated community.the first time i heard about this christian coptic community was in 2009 when the egyptian authorities under the regime of hosni mubarak decided to slaughter 300,000 pigs using the pretext of h1n1 virus. originally, they are pig breeders. their pigs and other animals are fed with the organic waste that they collect on a daily basis. this event killed their livelihood. the first time i entered manshiyat naser, it felt like a maze. i was looking for the st. simon monastery on the top of the muqattam mountain. so you go right, then straight, then right again, then left to reach all the way to the top. but to reach there, you must dodge between the trucks overpacked with garbage and slalom between the tuk-tuks, the fastest vehicle to move around in the neighborhood. the smell of the garbage unloaded from those trucks was intense, and the noise of the traffic was loud and overbearing. add to it the din created by the crushers in those warehouses along the way. from outside it looks chaotic, but everything is perfectly organized.the zaraeeb, that’s how they call themselves, which means the pig breeders, have been collecting the garbage of cairo and sorting it in their own neighborhood for decades. they have developed one of the most efficient and highly profitable systems on a global level. still, the place is perceived as dirty, marginalized and segregated because of their association with the trash. so my initial idea was to create an anamorphic piece, a piece that you can only see from one vantage point. i wanted to challenge myself artistically by painting over several buildings and having it only fully visible from one point on the muqattam mountain. the muqattam mountain is the pride of the community. this is where they built the st. simon monastery, a 10,000-seat cave church that they carved into the mountain itself.so, the first time i stood on top of the mountain and i looked at the neighborhood, i asked myself, how on earth will i convince all those owners to let me paint on their buildings? and then magd came. magd is a guide from the church. he told me the only person i needed to convince was father samaan, who is the leader of the community. but to convince father samaan, i needed to convince mario, who is a polish artist who moved to cairo 20 years ago and who created all the artwork of the cave church. i am really grateful to mario. he was the key of the project. he managed to get me a meeting with father samaan, and surprisingly, he loved the idea. he asked me about where i painted before and how i will make it happen. and he was mainly concerned by what i was going to write.in every work that i create, i write messages with my style of arabic calligraphy. i make sure those messages are relevant to the place where i am painting but have this universal dimension, so anybody around the world can relate to it.so for manshiyat naser, i decided to write in arabic the words of st. athanasius of alexandria, a coptic bishop from the third century, who said: (arabic), which means in english, "anyone who wants to see the sunlight clearly needs to wipe his eyes first."it was really important for me that the community felt connected to the words. and for me this quote was perfectly reflecting the spirit of the project.so father samaan blessed the project, and his approval brought all the residents on board. hundreds of liters of paint, a dozen blue manual lifts, several trips back and forth to cairo, a strong and solid team from france, north africa, middle east and the us, and after a year of planning and logistics, there we are, my team and some members from the local community creating a piece that will spread over 50 buildings, some filling up the space of the calligraphy that i trace with colors. here some blue, there some yellow, there some orange. some others carrying some sand bags and putting them on the top of the buildings to hold those manual lifts, and some others assembling and disassembling those same lifts and moving them around the different buildings.at the beginning of the project, i numbered all those buildings on my sketch, and there was no real interaction with the community. people didn’t get the point of all this. but fast enough, those building numbers became family names.the first building was the house of uncle ibrahim. uncle ibrahim is such an enthusiastic person. he was always singing and making jokes, and his daughters and sons saved me from his bull who wanted to attack me on the fourth floor. actually, the bull saw me from the window and came out on the balcony. yeah.uncle ibrahim was always hanging out on the balcony and talking to me while i was painting. i remember him saying that he didn’t go to the mountain for 10 years, and that he never takes a day off. he said that if he stopped working, who will stop the garbage? but surprisingly, at the end of the project, he came all the way to the mountain to look at the piece. he was really proud to see his house painted, and he said that this project was a project of peace and — sorry — thank you.he said that it was a project of peace and unity and that it brought people together.so his perception towards the project changed, and my perception towards the community changed also, and towards what they do. all the garbage that everybody is disgusted by is not theirs. they just work out of it. actually, they don’t live in the garbage. they live from the garbage. so i started doubting myself and wondering what was the real purpose of this whole project? it was not about beautifying a place by bringing art to it. it was about switching perception and opening a dialogue on the connection that we have with communities that we don’t know. so day after day, the calligraphy circle was taking shape, and we were always excited to go back on the mountain to look at the piece. and standing exactly at this point every day made my realize the symbolism behind this anamorphic piece. if you want to see the real image of somebody, maybe you should change your angle.there was doubts and difficulties, like fears and stress. it wasn't simple to work in such environments, sometimes having pigs under you while you paint or climbing a stack of garbage to reach a lift. but we all got over the fear of the heights, the swinging lifts, the strength of the smell and also the stress of not finishing on time.but the kindness of all those people made us forget everything. the building number 3 was the house of uncle bakheet and aunty fareeda. in egyptian, they have this expression that says, "ahsen nas," which means "the best people." they were the best people. we used to take our break in front of their houses, and all the kids of the neighborhood used to join us. i was impressed and amazed by the kids of manshiyat naser. for the first few days, they were always refusing anything we were offering them, even a snack or a drink. so i asked aunty fareeda, "why is that?" and she told me they teach their kids to refuse anything from somebody that they don't know because maybe this person needs it more than they do.so at this exact point i realized actually the zaraeeb community was the ideal context to raise the topic of perception. we need to question our level of misconception and judgment we can have as a society upon communities based on their differences. i remember how we got delayed on uncle ibrahim's house when his pigs that are bred on the rooftop were eating the sand bags that hold the lifts. the house of uncle bakheet and aunty fareeda was this kind of meeting point. everybody used to gather there. i think this is what uncle ibrahim meant when he said that was a project of peace and unity, because i really felt that people were coming together. everyone was greeting us with a smile, offering us a drink or inviting us into their own house for lunch. sometime, you are at the first level of a building, and somebody opens his window and offers you some tea. and then the same thing happens on the second floor. and you keep going all the way to the top. i think i never drink as much tea as i did in egypt. and to be honest with you, we could have finished earlier, but i think it took us three weeks because of all those tea breaks. in egypt, they have another expression, which is "nawartouna," which means, "you brought light to us." in manshiyat naser they were always telling us this. the calligraphy, actually — i used a white glow-in-the-dark paint for the calligraphy so at the end of the project, we rented some black light projectors and lit up the whole neighborhood, surprising everybody around. we wanted to tell them that they are the ones who brought light to us. the zaraeeb community are strong, honest, hard workers, and they know their value. the people of cairo call them "the zabaleen," which means "the people of the garbage," but ironically, the people of manshiyat naser call the people of cairo the zabaleen. they say, they are the ones who produce the garbage, not them. the goal was to leave something to this community, but i feel that they are the ones who left something in our lives. you know, the art project was just a pretext for this amazing human experience. the art piece at some point will disappear, vanish, and actually there is somebody who is building a second floor in front of uncle ibrahim's house, so it's covering part of the painting, so i might need to go back and paint over it. it was about the experience, about the story, about the moment.from the streets of the neighborhood, the painting appears in fragments, isolated from one another, standing alone. but connected with the sign of calligraphy that today reveals the powerful message that we should all think about before we want to judge somebody.anyone who wants to see the sunlight clearly needs to wipe his eyes first.thank you. <title = "How the Panama Papers journalists broke the biggest leak in history">
<tags = "['Internet', 'big problems', 'business', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'data', 'global issues', 'government', 'journalism', 'society', 'technology', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Investigative journalist">
what do you do if you had to figure out the information behind 11.5 million documents, verify it and make sense of it? that was a challenge that a group of journalists had to face late last year. an anonymous person calling himself john doe had somehow managed to copy nearly 40 years of records of the panamanian law firm mossack fonseca. this is one of many firms around the world that specialize in setting up accounts in offshore tax havens like the british virgin islands, for rich and powerful people who like to keep secrets.john doe had managed to copy every spreadsheet from this firm, every client file, every email, from 1977 to the present day. it represented the biggest cache of inside information into the tax haven system that anyone had ever seen. but it also presented a gigantic challenge to investigative journalism. think about it: 11.5 million documents, containing the secrets of people from more than 200 different countries. where do you start with such a vast resource? where do you even begin to tell a story that can trail off into every corner of the globe, and that can affect almost any person in any language, sometimes in ways they don't even know yet.john doe had given the information to two journalists at the german newspaper süddeutsche zeitung. he said he was motivated by — and i quote — "the scale of the injustice that the documents would reveal." but one user alone can never make sense of such a vast amount of information. so the süddeutsche zeitung reached out to my organization in washington, dc, the international consortium of investigative journalists. we decided to do something that was the very opposite of everything we'd been taught to do as journalists: share. by nature, investigative reporters are lone wolves. we fiercely guard our secrets, at times even from our editors, because we know that the moment we tell them what we have, they'll want that story right away. and to be frank, when you get a good story, you like to keep the glory to yourself.but there's no doubt that we live in a shrinking world, and that the media has largely been slow to wake up to this. the issues we report on are more and more transnational. giant corporations operate on a global level. environmental and health crises are global. so, too, are financial flows and financial crises. so it seems staggering that journalism has been so late to cover stories in a truly global way. and it also seems staggering that journalism has been so slow to wake up to the possibilities that technology brings, rather than being frightened of it. the reason journalists are scared of technology is this: the profession's largest institutions are going through tough times because of the changing way that people are consuming news. the advertising business models that have sustained reporting are broken. and this has plunged journalism into crisis, forcing those institutions to reexamine how they function.but where there is crisis, there is also opportunity. the first challenge presented by what would eventually become known as the panama papers was to make the documents searchable and readable. there were nearly five million emails, two million pdfs that needed to be scanned and indexed, and millions more files and other kinds of documents. they all needed to be housed in a safe and secure location in the cloud. we next invited reporters to have a look at the documents. in all, reporters from more than 100 media organizations in 76 countries — from the bbc in britain to le monde newspaper in france to the asahi shimbun in japan. "native eyes on native names," we called it, the idea being, who best to tell you who was important to nigeria than a nigerian journalist? who best in canada than a canadian? there were only two rules for everyone who was invited: we all agreed to share everything that we found with everybody else, and we all agreed to publish together on the same day.we chose our media partners based on trust that had been built up through previous smaller collaborations and also from leads that jumped out from the documents. over the next few months, my small nonprofit organization of less than 20 people was joined by more than 350 other reporters from 25 language groups. the biggest information leak in history had now spawned the biggest journalism collaboration in history: 376 sets of native eyes doing what journalists normally never do, working shoulder to shoulder, sharing information, but telling no one. for it became clear at this point that in order to make the biggest kind of noise, we first needed the biggest kind of silence.to manage the project over the many months it would take, we built a secure virtual newsroom. we used encrypted communication systems, and we built a specially designed search engine. inside the virtual newsroom, the reporters could gather around the themes that were emerging from the documents. those interested in blood diamonds or exotic art, for instance, could share information about how the offshore world was being used to hide the trade in both of those commodities. those interested in sport could share information about how famous sports stars were putting their image rights into offshore companies, thereby likely avoiding taxes in the countries where they plied their trade.but perhaps most exciting of all were the number of world leaders and elect politicians that were emerging from the documents — figures like petro poroshenko in ukraine, close associates of vladimir putin in russia and the british prime minister, david cameron, who is linked through his late father, ian cameron.buried in the documents were secret offshore entities, such as wintris inc., a company in the british virgin islands that had actually belonged to the sitting icelandic prime minister. i like to refer to johannes kristjansson, the icelandic reporter we invited to join the project, as the loneliest man in the world. for nine months, he refused paid work and lived off the earnings of his wife. he pasted tarps over the windows of his home to prevent prying eyes during the long icelandic winter. and he soon ran out of excuses to explain his many absences, as he worked red-eyed, night after night, month after month. in all that time, he sat on information that would eventually bring down the leader of his country.now, when you're an investigative reporter and you make an amazing discovery, such as your prime minster can be linked to a secret offshore company, that that company has a financial interest in icelandic banks — the very issue he's been elected on — well, your instinct is to scream out very loud. instead, as one of the few people that he could speak to, johannes and i shared a kind of gallows humor. "wintris is coming," he used to say. we were big fans of "game of thrones."when reporters like johannes wanted to scream, they did so inside the virtual newsroom, and then they turned those screams into stories by going outside the documents to court records, official company registers, and by eventually putting questions to those that we intended to name. panama papers actually allowed the reporters to look at the world through a different lens from everybody else.as we were researching the story, unconnected to us, a major political bribery scandal happened in brazil. a new leader was elected in argentina. the fbi began to indict officials at fifa, the organization that controls the world of professional soccer. the panama papers actually had unique insights into each one of these unfolding events. so you can imagine the pressure and the ego dramas that could have ruined what we were trying to do. any of one of these journalists, they could have broken the pact. but they didn't. and on april 3 this year, at exactly 8pm german time, we published simultaneously in 76 countries. the panama papers quickly became one of the biggest stories of the year. this is the scene in iceland the day after we published. it was the first of many protests. the icelandic prime minister had to resign. it was a first of many resignations. we spotlighted many famous people such as lionel messi, the most famous soccer player in the world. and there were some unintended consequences. these alleged members of a mexican drug cartel were arrested after we published details about their hideout. they'd been using the address to register their offshore company. there's a kind of irony in what we've been able to do. the technology — the internet — that has broken the business model is allowing us to reinvent journalism itself. and this dynamic is producing unprecedented levels of transparency and impact. we showed how a group of journalists can effect change across the world by applying new methods and old-fashioned journalism techniques to vast amounts of leaked information. we put all-important context around what was given to us by john doe. and by sharing resources, we were able to dig deep — much deeper and longer than most media organizations allow these days, because of financial concerns.now, it was a big risk, and it wouldn't work for every story, but we showed with the panama papers that you can write about any country from just about anywhere, and then choose your preferred battleground to defend your work. try obtaining a court injunction that would prevent the telling of a story in 76 different countries. try stopping the inevitable.shortly after we published, i got a three-word text from johannes: "wintris has arrived." it had arrived and so, too, perhaps has a new era for journalism.thank you. bruno giussani: gerard, thank you.i guess you're going to send that applause to the 350 journalists who worked with you, right?now, a couple of questions i would like to ask. the first one is, you'd been working in secrecy for over a year with 350-something colleagues from all over the world — was there ever a moment when you thought that the leak may be leaked, that the collaboration may just be broken by somebody publishing a story? or somebody not in the group releasing some information that they got to know?gerard ryle: we had a series of crises along the way, including when something major was happening in the world, the journalists from that country wanted to publish right away. we had to calm them down. probably the biggest crisis we had was a week before publication. we'd sent a series of questions to the associates of vladimir putin, but instead of responding, the kremlin actually held a press conference and denounced us, and denounced the whole thing as being, i guess, a plot from the west. at that point, putin thought it was just about him. and, of course, a lot of editors around the world were very nervous about this. they thought the story was going to get out. you can imagine the amount of time they'd spent, the amount of resources, money spent on this. so i had to basically spend the last week calming everyone down, a bit like a general, where you're holding your troops back: "calm, remain calm." and then eventually, of course, they all did.bg: and then a couple weeks ago or so, you released a lot of the documents as an open database for everybody to search via keyword, essentially.gr: we very much believe that the basic information about the offshore world should be made public. now, we didn't publish the underlying documents of the journalists we're working with. but the basic information such as the name of a person, what their offshore company was and the name of that company, is now all available online. in fact, the biggest resource of its kind basically is out there nowbg: gerard, thank you for the work you do.gr: thank you. <title = "A new way to study the brain's invisible secrets">
<tags = "['biology', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'brain', 'chemistry', 'humanity', 'illness', 'innovation', 'life', 'materials', 'medical research', 'nanoscale', 'neuroscience', 'potential', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Neuroengineer">
hello, everybody. i brought with me today a baby diaper. you'll see why in a second. baby diapers have interesting properties. they can swell enormously when you add water to them, an experiment done by millions of kids every day. but the reason why is that they're designed in a very clever way. they're made out of a thing called a swellable material. it's a special kind of material that, when you add water, it will swell up enormously, maybe a thousand times in volume. and this is a very useful, industrial kind of polymer. but what we're trying to do in my group at mit is to figure out if we can do something similar to the brain. can we make it bigger, big enough that you can peer inside and see all the tiny building blocks, the biomolecules, how they're organized in three dimensions, the structure, the ground truth structure of the brain, if you will? if we could get that, maybe we could have a better understanding of how the brain is organized to yield thoughts and emotions and actions and sensations. maybe we could try to pinpoint the exact changes in the brain that result in diseases, diseases like alzheimer's and epilepsy and parkinson's, for which there are few treatments, much less cures, and for which, very often, we don't know the cause or the origins and what's really causing them to occur. now, our group at mit is trying to take a different point of view from the way neuroscience has been done over the last hundred years. we're designers. we're inventors. we're trying to figure out how to build technologies that let us look at and repair the brain. and the reason is, the brain is incredibly, incredibly complicated.so what we've learned over the first century of neuroscience is that the brain is a very complicated network, made out of very specialized cells called neurons with very complex geometries, and electrical currents will flow through these complexly shaped neurons. furthermore, neurons are connected in networks. they're connected by little junctions called synapses that exchange chemicals and allow the neurons to talk to each other. the density of the brain is incredible. in a cubic millimeter of your brain, there are about 100,000 of these neurons and maybe a billion of those connections. but it's worse. so, if you could zoom in to a neuron, and, of course, this is just our artist's rendition of it. what you would see are thousands and thousands of kinds of biomolecules, little nanoscale machines organized in complex, 3d patterns, and together they mediate those electrical pulses, those chemical exchanges that allow neurons to work together to generate things like thoughts and feelings and so forth.now, we don't know how the neurons in the brain are organized to form networks, and we don't know how the biomolecules are organized within neurons to form these complex, organized machines. if we really want to understand this, we're going to need new technologies. but if we could get such maps, if we could look at the organization of molecules and neurons and neurons and networks, maybe we could really understand how the brain conducts information from sensory regions, mixes it with emotion and feeling, and generates our decisions and actions. maybe we could pinpoint the exact set of molecular changes that occur in a brain disorder. and once we know how those molecules have changed, whether they've increased in number or changed in pattern, we could use those as targets for new drugs, for new ways of delivering energy into the brain in order to repair the brain computations that are afflicted in patients who suffer from brain disorders.we've all seen lots of different technologies over the last century to try to confront this. i think we've all seen brain scans taken using mri machines. these, of course, have the great power that they are noninvasive, they can be used on living human subjects. but also, they're spatially crude. each of these blobs that you see, or voxels, as they're called, can contain millions and millions of neurons. so it's not at the level of resolution where it can pinpoint the molecular changes that occur or the changes in the wiring of these networks that contributes to our ability to be conscious and powerful beings.at the other extreme, you have microscopes. microscopes, of course, will use light to look at little tiny things. for centuries, they've been used to look at things like bacteria. for neuroscience, microscopes are actually how neurons were discovered in the first place, about 130 years ago. but light is fundamentally limited. you can't see individual molecules with a regular old microscope. you can't look at these tiny connections. so if we want to make our ability to see the brain more powerful, to get down to the ground truth structure, we're going to need to have even better technologies.my group, a couple years ago, started thinking: why don't we do the opposite? if it's so darn complicated to zoom in to the brain, why can't we make the brain bigger? it initially started with two grad students in my group, fei chen and paul tillberg. now many others in my group are helping with this process. we decided to try to figure out if we could take polymers, like the stuff in the baby diaper, and install it physically within the brain. if we could do it just right, and you add water, you can potentially blow the brain up to where you could distinguish those tiny biomolecules from each other. you would see those connections and get maps of the brain. this could potentially be quite dramatic.we brought a little demo here. we got some purified baby diaper material. it's much easier just to buy it off the internet than to extract the few grains that actually occur in these diapers. i'm going to put just one teaspoon here of this purified polymer. and here we have some water. what we're going to do is see if this teaspoon of the baby diaper material can increase in size. you're going to see it increase in volume by about a thousandfold before your very eyes. i could pour much more of this in there, but i think you've got the idea that this is a very, very interesting molecule, and if can use it in the right way, we might be able to really zoom in on the brain in a way that you can't do with past technologies.ok. so a little bit of chemistry now. what's going on in the baby diaper polymer? if you could zoom in, it might look something like what you see on the screen. polymers are chains of atoms arranged in long, thin lines. the chains are very tiny, about the width of a biomolecule, and these polymers are really dense. they're separated by distances that are around the size of a biomolecule. this is very good because we could potentially move everything apart in the brain. if we add water, what will happen is, this swellable material is going to absorb the water, the polymer chains will move apart from each other, and the entire material is going to become bigger. and because these chains are so tiny and spaced by biomolecular distances, we could potentially blow up the brain and make it big enough to see.here's the mystery, then: how do we actually make these polymer chains inside the brain so we can move all the biomolecules apart? if we could do that, maybe we could get ground truth maps of the brain. we could look at the wiring. we can peer inside and see the molecules within. to explain this, we made some animations where we actually look at, in these artist renderings, what biomolecules might look like and how we might separate them. step one: what we'd have to do, first of all, is attach every biomolecule, shown in brown here, to a little anchor, a little handle. we need to pull the molecules of the brain apart from each other, and to do that, we need to have a little handle that allows those polymers to bind to them and to exert their force.now, if you just take baby diaper polymer and dump it on the brain, obviously, it's going to sit there on top. so we need to find a way to make the polymers inside. and this is where we're really lucky. it turns out, you can get the building blocks, monomers, as they're called, and if you let them go into the brain and then trigger the chemical reactions, you can get them to form those long chains, right there inside the brain tissue. they're going to wind their way around biomolecules and between biomolecules, forming those complex webs that will allow you, eventually, to pull apart the molecules from each other. and every time one of those little handles is around, the polymer will bind to the handle, and that's exactly what we need in order to pull the molecules apart from each other.all right, the moment of truth. we have to treat this specimen with a chemical to kind of loosen up all the molecules from each other, and then, when we add water, that swellable material is going to start absorbing the water, the polymer chains will move apart, but now, the biomolecules will come along for the ride. and much like drawing a picture on a balloon, and then you blow up the balloon, the image is the same, but the ink particles have moved away from each other. and that's what we've been able to do now, but in three dimensions.there's one last trick. as you can see here, we've color-coded all the biomolecules brown. that's because they all kind of look the same. biomolecules are made out of the same atoms, but just in different orders. so we need one last thing in order to make them visible. we have to bring in little tags, with glowing dyes that will distinguish them. so one kind of biomolecule might get a blue color. another kind of biomolecule might get a red color. and so forth. and that's the final step. now we can look at something like a brain and look at the individual molecules, because we've moved them far apart enough from each other that we can tell them apart.so the hope here is that we can make the invisible visible. we can turn things that might seem small and obscure and blow them up until they're like constellations of information about life. here's an actual video of what it might look like. we have here a little brain in a dish — a little piece of a brain, actually. we've infused the polymer in, and now we're adding water. what you'll see is that, right before your eyes — this video is sped up about sixtyfold — this little piece of brain tissue is going to grow. it can increase by a hundredfold or even more in volume. and the cool part is, because those polymers are so tiny, we're separating biomolecules evenly from each other. it's a smooth expansion. we're not losing the configuration of the information. we're just making it easier to see.so now we can take actual brain circuitry — here's a piece of the brain involved with, for example, memory — and we can zoom in. we can start to actually look at how circuits are configured. maybe someday we could read out a memory. maybe we could actually look at how circuits are configured to process emotions, how the actual wiring of our brain is organized in order to make us who we are. and of course, we can pinpoint, hopefully, the actual problems in the brain at a molecular level. what if we could actually look into cells in the brain and figure out, wow, here are the 17 molecules that have altered in this brain tissue that has been undergoing epilepsy or changing in parkinson's disease or otherwise being altered? if we get that systematic list of things that are going wrong, those become our therapeutic targets. we can build drugs that bind those. we can maybe aim energy at different parts of the brain in order to help people with parkinson's or epilepsy or other conditions that affect over a billion people around the world.now, something interesting has been happening. it turns out that throughout biomedicine, there are other problems that expansion might help with. this is an actual biopsy from a human breast cancer patient. it turns out that if you look at cancers, if you look at the immune system, if you look at aging, if you look at development — all these processes are involving large-scale biological systems. but of course, the problems begin with those little nanoscale molecules, the machines that make the cells and the organs in our body tick. so what we're trying to do now is to figure out if we can actually use this technology to map the building blocks of life in a wide variety of diseases. can we actually pinpoint the molecular changes in a tumor so that we can actually go after it in a smart way and deliver drugs that might wipe out exactly the cells that we want to?you know, a lot of medicine is very high risk. sometimes, it's even guesswork. my hope is we can actually turn what might be a high-risk moon shot into something that's more reliable. if you think about the original moon shot, where they actually landed on the moon, it was based on solid science. we understood gravity; we understood aerodynamics. we knew how to build rockets. the science risk was under control. it was still a great, great feat of engineering. but in medicine, we don't necessarily have all the laws. do we have all the laws that are analogous to gravity, that are analogous to aerodynamics? i would argue that with technologies like the kinds i'm talking about today, maybe we can actually derive those. we can map the patterns that occur in living systems, and figure out how to overcome the diseases that plague us.you know, my wife and i have two young kids, and one of my hopes as a bioengineer is to make life better for them than it currently is for us. and my hope is, if we can turn biology and medicine from these high-risk endeavors that are governed by chance and luck, and make them things that we win by skill and hard work, then that would be a great advance.thank you very much. <title = "How trees talk to each other">
<tags = "['beauty', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'botany', 'communication', 'community', 'ecology', 'environment', 'green', 'identity', 'language', 'life', 'nature', 'plants', 'science', 'trees']">
<occupation = "Forest ecologist">
imagine you're walking through a forest. i'm guessing you're thinking of a collection of trees, what we foresters call a stand, with their rugged stems and their beautiful crowns. yes, trees are the foundation of forests, but a forest is much more than what you see, and today i want to change the way you think about forests. you see, underground there is this other world, a world of infinite biological pathways that connect trees and allow them to communicate and allow the forest to behave as though it's a single organism. it might remind you of a sort of intelligence.how do i know this? here's my story. i grew up in the forests of british columbia. i used to lay on the forest floor and stare up at the tree crowns. they were giants. my grandfather was a giant, too. he was a horse logger, and he used to selectively cut cedar poles from the inland rainforest. grandpa taught me about the quiet and cohesive ways of the woods, and how my family was knit into it. so i followed in grandpa's footsteps.he and i had this curiosity about forests, and my first big "aha" moment was at the outhouse by our lake. our poor dog jigs had slipped and fallen into the pit. so grandpa ran up with his shovel to rescue the poor dog. he was down there, swimming in the muck. but as grandpa dug through that forest floor, i became fascinated with the roots, and under that, what i learned later was the white mycelium and under that the red and yellow mineral horizons. eventually, grandpa and i rescued the poor dog, but it was at that moment that i realized that that palette of roots and soil was really the foundation of the forest.and i wanted to know more. so i studied forestry. but soon i found myself working alongside the powerful people in charge of the commercial harvest. the extent of the clear-cutting was alarming, and i soon found myself conflicted by my part in it. not only that, the spraying and hacking of the aspens and birches to make way for the more commercially valuable planted pines and firs was astounding. it seemed that nothing could stop this relentless industrial machine.so i went back to school, and i studied my other world. you see, scientists had just discovered in the laboratory in vitro that one pine seedling root could transmit carbon to another pine seedling root. but this was in the laboratory, and i wondered, could this happen in real forests? i thought yes. trees in real forests might also share information below ground. but this was really controversial, and some people thought i was crazy, and i had a really hard time getting research funding. but i persevered, and i eventually conducted some experiments deep in the forest, 25 years ago. i grew 80 replicates of three species: paper birch, douglas fir, and western red cedar. i figured the birch and the fir would be connected in a belowground web, but not the cedar. it was in its own other world. and i gathered my apparatus, and i had no money, so i had to do it on the cheap. so i went to canadian tire — and i bought some plastic bags and duct tape and shade cloth, a timer, a paper suit, a respirator. and then i borrowed some high-tech stuff from my university: a geiger counter, a scintillation counter, a mass spectrometer, microscopes. and then i got some really dangerous stuff: syringes full of radioactive carbon-14 carbon dioxide gas and some high pressure bottles of the stable isotope carbon-13 carbon dioxide gas. but i was legally permitted. oh, and i forgot some stuff, important stuff: the bug spray, the bear spray, the filters for my respirator. oh well.the first day of the experiment, we got out to our plot and a grizzly bear and her cub chased us off. and i had no bear spray. but you know, this is how forest research in canada goes. so i came back the next day, and mama grizzly and her cub were gone. so this time, we really got started, and i pulled on my white paper suit, i put on my respirator, and then i put the plastic bags over my trees. i got my giant syringes, and i injected the bags with my tracer isotope carbon dioxide gases, first the birch. i injected carbon-14, the radioactive gas, into the bag of birch. and then for fir, i injected the stable isotope carbon-13 carbon dioxide gas. i used two isotopes, because i was wondering whether there was two-way communication going on between these species. i got to the final bag, the 80th replicate, and all of a sudden mama grizzly showed up again. and she started to chase me, and i had my syringes above my head, and i was swatting the mosquitos, and i jumped into the truck, and i thought, "this is why people do lab studies." i waited an hour. i figured it would take this long for the trees to suck up the co2 through photosynthesis, turn it into sugars, send it down into their roots, and maybe, i hypothesized, shuttle that carbon belowground to their neighbors. after the hour was up, i rolled down my window, and i checked for mama grizzly. oh good, she's over there eating her huckleberries. so i got out of the truck and i got to work. i went to my first bag with the birch. i pulled the bag off. i ran my geiger counter over its leaves. kkhh! perfect. the birch had taken up the radioactive gas. then the moment of truth. i went over to the fir tree. i pulled off its bag. i ran the geiger counter up its needles, and i heard the most beautiful sound. kkhh! it was the sound of birch talking to fir, and birch was saying, "hey, can i help you?" and fir was saying, "yeah, can you send me some of your carbon? because somebody threw a shade cloth over me." i went up to cedar, and i ran the geiger counter over its leaves, and as i suspected, silence. cedar was in its own world. it was not connected into the web interlinking birch and fir.i was so excited, i ran from plot to plot and i checked all 80 replicates. the evidence was clear. the c-13 and c-14 was showing me that paper birch and douglas fir were in a lively two-way conversation. it turns out at that time of the year, in the summer, that birch was sending more carbon to fir than fir was sending back to birch, especially when the fir was shaded. and then in later experiments, we found the opposite, that fir was sending more carbon to birch than birch was sending to fir, and this was because the fir was still growing while the birch was leafless. so it turns out the two species were interdependent, like yin and yang.and at that moment, everything came into focus for me. i knew i had found something big, something that would change the way we look at how trees interact in forests, from not just competitors but to cooperators. and i had found solid evidence of this massive belowground communications network, the other world.now, i truly hoped and believed that my discovery would change how we practice forestry, from clear-cutting and herbiciding to more holistic and sustainable methods, methods that were less expensive and more practical. what was i thinking? i'll come back to that.so how do we do science in complex systems like forests? well, as forest scientists, we have to do our research in the forests, and that's really tough, as i've shown you. and we have to be really good at running from bears. but mostly, we have to persevere in spite of all the stuff stacked against us. and we have to follow our intuition and our experiences and ask really good questions. and then we've got to gather our data and then go verify. for me, i've conducted and published hundreds of experiments in the forest. some of my oldest experimental plantations are now over 30 years old. you can check them out. that's how forest science works.so now i want to talk about the science. how were paper birch and douglas fir communicating? well, it turns out they were conversing not only in the language of carbon but also nitrogen and phosphorus and water and defense signals and allele chemicals and hormones — information. and you know, i have to tell you, before me, scientists had thought that this belowground mutualistic symbiosis called a mycorrhiza was involved. mycorrhiza literally means "fungus root." you see their reproductive organs when you walk through the forest. they're the mushrooms. the mushrooms, though, are just the tip of the iceberg, because coming out of those stems are fungal threads that form a mycelium, and that mycelium infects and colonizes the roots of all the trees and plants. and where the fungal cells interact with the root cells, there's a trade of carbon for nutrients, and that fungus gets those nutrients by growing through the soil and coating every soil particle. the web is so dense that there can be hundreds of kilometers of mycelium under a single footstep. and not only that, that mycelium connects different individuals in the forest, individuals not only of the same species but between species, like birch and fir, and it works kind of like the internet.you see, like all networks, mycorrhizal networks have nodes and links. we made this map by examining the short sequences of dna of every tree and every fungal individual in a patch of douglas fir forest. in this picture, the circles represent the douglas fir, or the nodes, and the lines represent the interlinking fungal highways, or the links.the biggest, darkest nodes are the busiest nodes. we call those hub trees, or more fondly, mother trees, because it turns out that those hub trees nurture their young, the ones growing in the understory. and if you can see those yellow dots, those are the young seedlings that have established within the network of the old mother trees. in a single forest, a mother tree can be connected to hundreds of other trees. and using our isotope tracers, we have found that mother trees will send their excess carbon through the mycorrhizal network to the understory seedlings, and we've associated this with increased seedling survival by four times.now, we know we all favor our own children, and i wondered, could douglas fir recognize its own kin, like mama grizzly and her cub? so we set about an experiment, and we grew mother trees with kin and stranger's seedlings. and it turns out they do recognize their kin. mother trees colonize their kin with bigger mycorrhizal networks. they send them more carbon below ground. they even reduce their own root competition to make elbow room for their kids. when mother trees are injured or dying, they also send messages of wisdom on to the next generation of seedlings. so we've used isotope tracing to trace carbon moving from an injured mother tree down her trunk into the mycorrhizal network and into her neighboring seedlings, not only carbon but also defense signals. and these two compounds have increased the resistance of those seedlings to future stresses. so trees talk. thank you.through back and forth conversations, they increase the resilience of the whole community. it probably reminds you of our own social communities, and our families, well, at least some families. so let's come back to the initial point. forests aren't simply collections of trees, they're complex systems with hubs and networks that overlap and connect trees and allow them to communicate, and they provide avenues for feedbacks and adaptation, and this makes the forest resilient. that's because there are many hub trees and many overlapping networks. but they're also vulnerable, vulnerable not only to natural disturbances like bark beetles that preferentially attack big old trees but high-grade logging and clear-cut logging. you see, you can take out one or two hub trees, but there comes a tipping point, because hub trees are not unlike rivets in an airplane. you can take out one or two and the plane still flies, but you take out one too many, or maybe that one holding on the wings, and the whole system collapses.so now how are you thinking about forests? differently?(audience) yes.cool. i'm glad.so, remember i said earlier that i hoped that my research, my discoveries would change the way we practice forestry. well, i want to take a check on that 30 years later here in western canada.this is about 100 kilometers to the west of us, just on the border of banff national park. that's a lot of clear-cuts. it's not so pristine. in 2014, the world resources institute reported that canada in the past decade has had the highest forest disturbance rate of any country worldwide, and i bet you thought it was brazil. in canada, it's 3.6 percent per year. now, by my estimation, that's about four times the rate that is sustainable.now, massive disturbance at this scale is known to affect hydrological cycles, degrade wildlife habitat, and emit greenhouse gases back into the atmosphere, which creates more disturbance and more tree diebacks.not only that, we're continuing to plant one or two species and weed out the aspens and birches. these simplified forests lack complexity, and they're really vulnerable to infections and bugs. and as climate changes, this is creating a perfect storm for extreme events, like the massive mountain pine beetle outbreak that just swept across north america, or that megafire in the last couple months in alberta.so i want to come back to my final question: instead of weakening our forests, how can we reinforce them and help them deal with climate change? well, you know, the great thing about forests as complex systems is they have enormous capacity to self-heal. in our recent experiments, we found with patch-cutting and retention of hub trees and regeneration to a diversity of species and genes and genotypes that these mycorrhizal networks, they recover really rapidly. so with this in mind, i want to leave you with four simple solutions. and we can't kid ourselves that these are too complicated to act on.first, we all need to get out in the forest. we need to reestablish local involvement in our own forests. you see, most of our forests now are managed using a one-size-fits-all approach, but good forest stewardship requires knowledge of local conditions.second, we need to save our old-growth forests. these are the repositories of genes and mother trees and mycorrhizal networks. so this means less cutting. i don't mean no cutting, but less cutting.and third, when we do cut, we need to save the legacies, the mother trees and networks, and the wood, the genes, so they can pass their wisdom onto the next generation of trees so they can withstand the future stresses coming down the road. we need to be conservationists.and finally, fourthly and finally, we need to regenerate our forests with a diversity of species and genotypes and structures by planting and allowing natural regeneration. we have to give mother nature the tools she needs to use her intelligence to self-heal. and we need to remember that forests aren't just a bunch of trees competing with each other, they're supercooperators.so back to jigs. jigs's fall into the outhouse showed me this other world, and it changed my view of forests. i hope today to have changed how you think about forests.thank you. <title = "The jobs we'll lose to machines -- and the ones we won't">
<tags = "['AI', 'collaboration', 'data', 'future', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'machine learning', 'productivity', 'programming', 'robots', 'technology', 'work']">
<occupation = "Machine learning expert">
so this is my niece. her name is yahli. she is nine months old. her mum is a doctor, and her dad is a lawyer. by the time yahli goes to college, the jobs her parents do are going to look dramatically different.in 2013, researchers at oxford university did a study on the future of work. they concluded that almost one in every two jobs have a high risk of being automated by machines. machine learning is the technology that's responsible for most of this disruption. it's the most powerful branch of artificial intelligence. it allows machines to learn from data and mimic some of the things that humans can do. my company, kaggle, operates on the cutting edge of machine learning. we bring together hundreds of thousands of experts to solve important problems for industry and academia. this gives us a unique perspective on what machines can do, what they can't do and what jobs they might automate or threaten.machine learning started making its way into industry in the early '90s. it started with relatively simple tasks. it started with things like assessing credit risk from loan applications, sorting the mail by reading handwritten characters from zip codes. over the past few years, we have made dramatic breakthroughs. machine learning is now capable of far, far more complex tasks. in 2012, kaggle challenged its community to build an algorithm that could grade high-school essays. the winning algorithms were able to match the grades given by human teachers. last year, we issued an even more difficult challenge. can you take images of the eye and diagnose an eye disease called diabetic retinopathy? again, the winning algorithms were able to match the diagnoses given by human ophthalmologists.now, given the right data, machines are going to outperform humans at tasks like this. a teacher might read 10,000 essays over a 40-year career. an ophthalmologist might see 50,000 eyes. a machine can read millions of essays or see millions of eyes within minutes. we have no chance of competing against machines on frequent, high-volume tasks.but there are things we can do that machines can't do. where machines have made very little progress is in tackling novel situations. they can't handle things they haven't seen many times before. the fundamental limitations of machine learning is that it needs to learn from large volumes of past data. now, humans don't. we have the ability to connect seemingly disparate threads to solve problems we've never seen before.percy spencer was a physicist working on radar during world war ii, when he noticed the magnetron was melting his chocolate bar. he was able to connect his understanding of electromagnetic radiation with his knowledge of cooking in order to invent — any guesses? — the microwave oven.now, this is a particularly remarkable example of creativity. but this sort of cross-pollination happens for each of us in small ways thousands of times per day. machines cannot compete with us when it comes to tackling novel situations, and this puts a fundamental limit on the human tasks that machines will automate.so what does this mean for the future of work? the future state of any single job lies in the answer to a single question: to what extent is that job reducible to frequent, high-volume tasks, and to what extent does it involve tackling novel situations? on frequent, high-volume tasks, machines are getting smarter and smarter. today they grade essays. they diagnose certain diseases. over coming years, they're going to conduct our audits, and they're going to read boilerplate from legal contracts. accountants and lawyers are still needed. they're going to be needed for complex tax structuring, for pathbreaking litigation. but machines will shrink their ranks and make these jobs harder to come by.now, as mentioned, machines are not making progress on novel situations. the copy behind a marketing campaign needs to grab consumers' attention. it has to stand out from the crowd. business strategy means finding gaps in the market, things that nobody else is doing. it will be humans that are creating the copy behind our marketing campaigns, and it will be humans that are developing our business strategy.so yahli, whatever you decide to do, let every day bring you a new challenge. if it does, then you will stay ahead of the machines.thank you. <title = "How to build a business that lasts 100 years">
<tags = "['biology', 'business', 'future', 'innovation', 'leadership', 'potential', 'productivity', 'resources', 'success', 'work']">
<occupation = "Strategist">
imagine that you are a product designer. and you've designed a product, a new type of product, called the human immune system. you're pitching this product to a skeptical, strictly no-nonsense manager. let's call him bob. i think we all know at least one bob, right? how would that go?bob, i've got this incredible idea for a completely new type of personal health product. it's called the human immune system. i can see from your face that you're having some problems with this. don't worry. i know it's very complicated. i don't want to take you through the gory details, i just want to tell you about some of the amazing features of this product. first of all, it cleverly uses redundancy by having millions of copies of each component — leukocytes, white blood cells — before they're actually needed, to create a massive buffer against the unexpected. and it cleverly leverages diversity by having not just leukocytes but b cells, t cells, natural killer cells, antibodies. the components don't really matter. the point is that together, this diversity of different approaches can cope with more or less anything that evolution has been able to throw up. and the design is completely modular. you have the surface barrier of the human skin, you have the very rapidly reacting innate immune system and then you have the highly targeted adaptive immune system. the point is, that if one system fails, another can take over, creating a virtually foolproof system.i can see i'm losing you, bob, but stay with me, because here is the really killer feature. the product is completely adaptive. it's able to actually develop targeted antibodies to threats that it's never even met before. it actually also does this with incredible prudence, detecting and reacting to every tiny threat, and furthermore, remembering every previous threat, in case they are ever encountered again. what i'm pitching you today is actually not a stand-alone product. the product is embedded in the larger system of the human body, and it works in complete harmony with that system, to create this unprecedented level of biological protection. so bob, just tell me honestly, what do you think of my product?and bob may say something like, i sincerely appreciate the effort and passion that have gone into your presentation, blah blah blah — but honestly, it's total nonsense. you seem to be saying that the key selling points of your product are that it is inefficient and complex. didn't they teach you 80-20? and furthermore, you're saying that this product is siloed. it overreacts, makes things up as it goes along and is actually designed for somebody else's benefit. i'm sorry to break it to you, but i don't think this one is a winner.if we went with bob's philosophy, i think we'd actually end up with a more efficient immune system. and efficiency is always important in the short term. less complex, more efficient, more bang for the buck. who could say no to that? unfortunately, there's one very tiny problem, and that is that the user of this product, you or i, would probably die within one week of the next winter, when we encountered a new strain of the influenza virus.i first became interested in biology and business, and longevity and resilience, when i was asked a very unusual question by the ceo of a global tech company. and the question was: what do we have to do to make sure that our company lasts 100 years? a seemingly innocent question, but actually, it's a little trickier than you might think, considering that the average us public company now can expect a life span of only 30 years. that is less than half of the life span that its employees can expect to enjoy.now, if you were the ceo of such a company, badgered by investors and buffeted by change, we might forgive you for not even worrying too much about what happens 30 years out. but here's something that should keep you awake at night: the probability that your company will not be around in five year's time, on average, is now a staggering 32 percent. that's a one in three chance that your company will be taken over or will fail within just five years.let's come back to our tech ceo's question. where better to turn for advice than nature, that's been in the business of life and death for longer than any company? as a lapsed biologist, i decided to immediately call a real biologist, my friend simon levin, professor of biology and mathematics at princeton university. together, we looked at a variety of biological systems, ranging from natural tropical rainforests through to managed forests and fisheries. and we asked ourselves the question: what makes these systems resilient and enduring?and what we found was that the same six principles that we saw underpinning the miracle of the human immune system actually cropped up again and again, from redundancy through to embeddedness. in fact, we saw these principles not only in biologically enduring systems, we also found them being very characteristic of long-lived social systems, like the roman empire and the catholic church, believe it or not. we also went on to look at business, and found that these very same properties also characterized businesses that were resilient and long-lived, and we noted their absence from ones which were short-lived.let's first take a look at what happens when the corporate immune system collapses. this beautiful building is part of the shitennoji temple complex in osaka, japan. in fact, it's one of the oldest temples in japan. it was built by a korean artisan, because at the time, japan was not yet building temples. and this korean artisan went on to found a temple-building company. amazingly, his company, kongō gumi, was still around 1,428 years later. in fact, it became the oldest continuously operating company in the world.so how is kongō gumi doing today? not too well, i'm afraid. it borrowed very heavily during the bubble period of the japanese economy, to invest in real estate. and when the bubble burst, it couldn't refinance its loans. the company failed, and it was taken over by a major construction company. tragically, after 40 generations of very careful stewardship by the kongō family, kongō gumi succumbed to a spectacular lapse in the ability to apply a principle of prudence.speaking of company failures: we're all familiar with the failure of kodak, the company that declared bankruptcy in january 2012. much more interesting, however, is the question: why did fujifilm — same product, same pressures from digital technology, same time — why was fujifilm able to survive and flourish?fujifilm used its capabilities in chemistry, material science and optics to diversify into a number of areas, ranging from cosmetics to pharmaceuticals, to medical systems to biomaterials. some of these diversification attempts failed. but in aggregate, it was able to adapt its portfolio sufficiently to survive and flourish. as the ceo, mr. komori, put it, the strategy succeeded because it had "more pockets and drawers" than the rivals. he meant, of course, that they were able to create more options than the rivals. fujifilm survived because it applied the principles of prudence, diversity and adaptation.a catastrophic factory fire, like the one we see here, completely wiped out, in one evening, the only plant which supplied toyota with valves for car-braking systems. the ultimate test of resilience. car production ground to a screeching halt. how was it, then, that toyota was able to recover car production? can you imagine how long it took? just five days. from having no braking valves to complete recovery in five days. how was this possible? toyota managed its network of suppliers in such a collaborative manner that it could work very quickly and smoothly with suppliers to repurpose production, fill the missing braking valve capacity and have car production come online again. toyota applied the principles of modularity of its supply network, embeddedness in an integrated system and the functional redundancy to be able to repurpose, smoothly, existing capacity.now fortunately, few companies succumb to catastrophic fires. but we do read in the newspaper every day about companies succumbing to the disruption of technology. how is it, then, that the consumer optics giant essilor is able to avoid technology disruption, and even profit from it? and yes, technology disruption is not only a big deal in software and electronics. essilor carefully scans the competitive environment for potentially disruptive technologies. it acquires those technologies very early, before they've become expensive or competitors have mobilized around them, and it then develops those technologies itself, even at the risk of failure or the risk of self-disruption. essilor stays ahead of its game, and has delivered spectacular performance for over 40 years, by using the principles of prudence and adaptation.ok, if these principles are so powerful, you might be thinking, why are they not commonplace in business? why do we not use these words every day? well, change has to first start in the mind. if we think back to our pitch to bob, in order to apply the principles that underpin the miracle of the human immune system, we first need to think differently about business. now typically, when we think about business, we use what i call "mechanical thinking." we set goals, we analyze problems, we construct and we adhere to plans, and more than anything else, we stress efficiency and short-term performance. now, don't get me wrong — this is a splendidly practical and effective way of addressing relatively simple challenges in relatively stable environments. it's the way that bob — and probably many of us, myself included — process most business problems we're faced with every day. in fact, it was a pretty good mental model for business — overall — until about the mid-1980s, when the conjunction of globalization and a revolution in technology and telecommunications made business far more dynamic and unpredictable.but what about those more dynamic and unpredictable situations that we now increasingly face? i think in addition to the mechanical thinking, we now need to master the art of biological thinking, as embodied by our six principles. in other words, we need to think more modestly and subtly about when and how we can shape, rather than control, unpredictable and complex situations. it's a little like the difference between throwing a ball and releasing a bird. the ball would head in a straight line, probably towards the intended target, and the bird certainly would not.so what do you think? sounds a little impractical, a little theoretical, perhaps? not at all. every small entrepreneurial company naturally thinks and acts biologically. why? because it lacks the resources to shape its environment through brute force. it lacks the scale to buffer change, and it's constantly thinking about the tough odds for a start-up to survive. now, the irony is, of course, that every large company started off as a small, entrepreneurial company. but along the way somewhere, many have lost this ability to think and act biologically. they need to rejuvenate their ability to think biologically in order to survive and thrive in today's environment.so let's not just think about short-term performance. every company i know spends plenty of time thinking about the central question of strategy: how good is our competitive game? in addition, let's also consider the second, more biological and equally important question: how long will that game last?thank you very much. <title = "The taboo secret to better health">
<tags = "['Natural resources', 'TEDx', 'activism', 'agriculture', 'alternative energy', 'climate change', 'community', 'design', 'energy', 'engineering', 'environment', 'farming', 'food', 'green', 'health', 'humanity', 'infrastructure', 'nature', 'sanitation', 'water']">
<occupation = "Designer">
whenever i get to travel for work, i try to find out where my drinking water comes from, and where my poop and pee go. this has earned me the nickname "the poo princess" in my family, and it's ruined many family vacations, because this is not normal. but thinking about where it all goes is the first step in activating what are actually superpowers in our poop and pee. yeah. and if we use them well, we can live healthier and more beautifully.check out this landscape in santa fe, new mexico. just notice what kinds of words and feelings come to mind. this landscape was watered with treated sewage water. does that change anything for you? i imagine it might. and that's ok. how we feel about this is going to determine exactly how innovative we can be.and i want to explain how it works, but what words do i use? i mean, i can use profane words like "shit" and "piss," and then my grandma won't watch the video. or i can use childish words like "poo" and "pee." eh. or i can use scientific words like "excrement" and "feces." humph. i'll use a mix. it's all i got. (laughs)so, in this suburb, the poo and the pee and the wash water are going to this treatment plant right in the middle of the community. it looks more like a park than a treatment plant. the poo at the very bottom of all those layers of gravel — not touching anyone — is providing solid food for those marsh plants. and the clean, clear water that comes out the other end is traveling underground to water each person's yard. so even though they're in a desert, they get their own personal oasis.this approach is called integrated water management, or holistic or closed-loop. whatever you want to call it, it's in conflict with the status quo of how we think about sanitation, which is contain, treat, push it away. but in this approach, we're doing one step better. we're designing for reuse from the very beginning, because everything does get reused, only now we're planning for it. and often, that makes for really beautiful spaces. but the most important thing about this system isn't the technicals of how it works. it's how you feel about it. do you want this in your yard? why not?i got really curious about this question. why don't we see more innovation in sanitation? why isn't that kind of thing the new normal? and i care so much about this question, that i work for a nonprofit called recode. we want to accelerate adoption of sustainable building and development practices. we want more innovation. but a lot of times, whole categories of innovation — ones that can help us live more beautifully — turn out to be illegal. today's regulations and codes were written under the assumption that best practices would remain best practices, with incremental updates forever and ever. but innovation isn't always incremental. it turns out, how we feel about any particular new technique gets into everything we do: how we talk about it, how we encourage people to study, our jokes, our codes ... and it ultimately determines how innovative we can be.so, that's the first reason we don't innovate in sanitation. we're kind of uncomfortable talking about sanitation, that's why i've gotten called "the poo princess" so much. the second reason is: we think the problem is solved here in the us. but not so. here in the us we still get sick from drinking shit in our sewage water. seven million people get sick every year, 900 die annually. and we're not taking a holistic approach to making it better. so we're not solving it.where i live in portland, oregon, i can't take echo for a swim during the rainy season, because we dump raw sewage sometimes into our river. our rainwater and our sewage go to the same treatment plant. too much rain overflows into the river. and portland is not alone here. forty percent of municipalities self-report dumping raw or partially treated sewage into our waterways.the other bummer going on here with our status quo is that half of all of your poop and pee is going to fertilize farmland. the other half is being incinerated or land-filled. and that's a bummer to me, because there are amazing nutrients in your daily doody. it is comparable to pig manure; we're omnivores, they're omnivores. think of your poo and pee as a health smoothie for a tree. the other bummer going on here is that we're quickly moving all the drugs we take into our waterways. the average wastewater treatment plant can remove maybe half of the drugs that come in. the other half goes right out the other side. consider what a cocktail of pharmaceuticals — hormones, steroids, vicodin — does to a fish, to a dog, to a child.but this isn't just some problem that we need to contain. if we flip this around, we can create a resource that can solve so many of our other problems. and i want to get you comfortable with this idea, so imagine the things i'm going to show you, these technologies, and this attitude that says, "we're going to reuse this. let's design to make it beautiful" — as advanced potty training. i think you're ready for it. i think we as a culture are ready for advanced potty training. and there are three great reasons to enroll today. number one: we can fertilize our food. each one of us is pooping and peeing something that could fertilize half or maybe all of our food, depending on our diet. that dark brown poo in the toilet is dark brown because of what? dead stuff, bacteria. that's carbon. and carbon, if we're getting that into the soil, is going to bind to the other minerals and nutrients in there. boom! healthier food. voilà! healthier people. chemical fertilizers by definition don't have carbon in them. imagine if we could move our animal manure and our human manure to our soil, we might not need to rely on fossil fuel-based fertilizers, mine minerals from far away. imagine how much energy we could save.now, some of us are concerned about industrial pollutants contaminating this reuse cycle. that can be addressed. but we need to separate our discomfort about talking about poo and pee so we can calmly talk about how we want to reuse it and what things we don't want to reuse. and get this: if we change our approach to sanitation, we can start to slow down climate change. remember that carbon in the poop? if we can get that into our soil bank, it's going to start to absorb carbon dioxide that we put into the air. and that could help slow down global warming.i want to show you some brave souls who've had the courage to embrace this advanced potty training approach. so those folks in new mexico — why did they do it? 'cause they're in a desert? 'cause they save money? yeah. but more importantly, they felt comfortable seeing what was going down the toilet as a resource.here's an average house in portland, oregon. this house is special because they have a composting toilet turning all their poo and pee, over time, into a soil amendment. their wash water, their shower water, is going underground to a series of mulch basins, and then watering that orchard downhill. when they went to get this permitted, it wasn't allowed in oregon. but it was allowed in five other states nearby. that was recode's — my organization's — first code-change campaign.here's a great example where the integrated water management approach was the cheapest. this is three high-rise residential buildings in downtown portland, and they're not flushing to the sewer system. how? well, their wash water is getting reused to flush toilets, cool mechanical systems, water the landscape. and then once the building has thoroughly used everything — aka, shat in it — it's treated to highest standard right on-site by plants and bacteria, and then infiltrated into the groundwater right below. and all that was cheaper than updating the surrounding sewer infrastructure.so that's the last reason we should get really excited about doing things differently: we can save a lot of money. this was the first permit of its kind in oregon. brave and open-minded people sat down and felt comfortable saying, "yeah, that shit makes sense." "let's do it." you know?i keep showing examples where everyone's reusing everything on-site. why? well, when we look at our aging infrastructure — and it is old — and we look at the cost of updating it, three-quarters of that cost is just the pipes snaking through our city. so as we build anew, as we renovate, it might make more sense to treat and reuse everything on-site.san francisco realized that it made sense to invest in rebates for every household to reuse their wash water and their rainwater to water the backyard, because the amount of water they would save as a community would be so big. but why were all these projects so innovative? the money piece, yeah. but more importantly, they felt comfortable with this idea of advanced potty training.imagine if we embraced innovation for sanitation the way we have for, say, solar power. think about it — solar power used to be uncommon and unaffordable. now it's more a part of our web of power than ever before. and it's creating resiliency. we now have sources of power like the sun that don't vary with our earthly dramas. what's driving all that innovation? it's us. we're talking about energy. it's cool to talk about energy. some folks are even talking about the problems with the limited resources where our current energy is coming from. we encourage our best and brightest to work on this issue — better solar panels, better batteries, everything.so let's talk about where our drinking water is coming from, where our poo and pee are actually going. if we can get over this discomfort with this entire topic, we could create something that creates our future goldmine. every time you flush the toilet, i want you to think, "where is my poop and pee going? will they be gainfully employed?" "or are they going to be wreaking havoc in some waterway?"if you don't know, find out. and if you don't like the answer, figure out how you can communicate to those who can drive this change that you have advanced potty training, that you are ready for reuse. how all of you feel is going to determine exactly how innovative we can be.thank you so much. <title = "How Africa can keep rising">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Natural resources', 'business', 'collaboration', 'economics', 'education', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'goal-setting', 'government', 'investment', 'mobility', 'policy', 'potential', 'society', 'technology', 'war', 'women']">
<occupation = "Economist">
the narrative of a rising africa is being challenged.about 10 years ago, i spoke about an africa, an africa of hope and opportunity, an africa of entrepreneurs, an africa very different from the africa that you normally hear about of death, poverty and disease. and that what i spoke about, became part of what is known now as the narrative of the rising africa.i want to tell you two stories about this rising africa. the first has to do with rwanda, a country that has gone through many trials and tribulations. and rwanda has decided to become the technology hub, or a technology hub on the continent. it's a country with mountainous and hilly terrain, a little bit like here, so it's very difficult to deliver services to people. so what has rwanda said? in order to save lives, it's going to try using drones to deliver lifesaving drugs, vaccines and blood to people in hard-to-reach places in partnership with a company called zipline, with ups, and also with the gavi, a global vaccine alliance. in doing this, it will save lives. this is part of the type of innovation we want to see in the rising africa.the second story has to do with something that i'm sure most of you have seen or will remember. very often, countries in africa suffer drought and floods, and it's getting more frequent because of climate change effects. when this happens, they normally wait for international appeals to raise money. you see pictures of children with flies on their faces, carcasses of dead animals and so on. now these countries, 32 countries, came together under the auspices of the african union and decided to form an organization called the african risk capacity. what does it do? it's a weather-based insurance agency, and what these countries do is to pay insurance each year, about 3 million dollars a year of their own resources, so that in the event they have a difficult drought situation or flood, this money will be paid out to them, which they can then use to take care of their populations, instead of waiting for aid to come. the african risk capacity last year paid 26 million dollars to mauritania, senegal and niger. this enabled them to take care of 1.3 million people affected by drought. they were able to restore livelihoods, buy fodder for cattle, feed children in school and in short keep the populations home instead of migrating out of the area.so these are the kinds of stories of an africa ready to take responsibility for itself, and to look for solutions for its own problems. but that narrative is being challenged now because the continent has not been doing well in the last two years. it had been growing at five percent per annum for the last one and a half decades, but this year's forecast was three percent. why? in an uncertain global environment, commodity prices have fallen. many of the economies are still commodity driven, and therefore their performance has slipped. and now the issue of brexit doesn't make it any easier. i never knew that the brexit could happen and that it could be one of the things that would cause global uncertainty such as we have.so now we've got this situation, and i think it's time to take stock and to say what were the things that the african countries did right? what did they do wrong? how do we build on all of this and learn lessons so that we can keep africa rising?so let me talk about six things that i think we did right. the first is managing our economies better. the '80s and '90s were the lost decades, when africa was not doing well, and some of you will remember an "economist" cover that said, "the lost continent." but in the 2000s, policymakers learned that they needed to manage the macroeconomic environment better, to ensure stability, keep inflation low in single digits, keep their fiscal deficits low, below three percent of gdp, give investors, both domestic and foreign, some stability so they'll have confidence to invest in these economies. so that was number one.two, debt. in 1994, the debt-to-gdp ratio of african countries was 130 percent, and they didn't have fiscal space. they couldn't use their resources to invest in their development because they were paying debt. there may be some of you in this room who worked to support african countries to get debt relief. so private creditors, multilaterals and bilaterals came together and decided to do the highly indebted poor countries initiative and give debt relief. so this debt relief in 2005 made the debt-to-gdp ratio fall down to about 30 percent, and there was enough resources to try and reinvest.the third thing was loss-making enterprises. governments were involved in business which they had no business being in. and they were running businesses, they were making losses. so some of these enterprises were restructured, commercialized, privatized or closed, and they became less of a burden on government.the fourth thing was a very interesting thing. the telecoms revolution came, and african countries jumped on it. in 2000, we had 11 million phone lines. today, we have about 687 million mobile lines on the continent. and this has enabled us to go, move forward with some mobile technology where africa is actually leading. in kenya, the development of mobile money — m-pesa, which all of you have heard about — it took some time for the world to notice that africa was ahead in this particular technology. and this mobile money is also providing a platform for access to alternative energy. you know, people who can now pay for solar the same way they pay for cards for their telephone. so this was a very good development, something that went right.we also invested more in education and health, not enough, but there were some improvements. 250 million children were immunized in the last one and a half decades.the other thing was that conflicts decreased. there were many conflicts on the continent. many of you are aware of that. but they came down, and our leaders even managed to dampen some coups. new types of conflicts have emerged, and i'll refer to those later.so based on all this, there's also some differentiation on the continent that i want you to know about, because even as the doom and gloom is here, there are some countries — côte d'ivoire, kenya, ethiopia, tanzania and senegal are performing relatively well at the moment.but what did we do wrong? let me mention eight things. you have to have more things wrong than right. so there are eight things we did wrong. the first was that even though we grew, we didn't create enough jobs. we didn't create jobs for our youth. youth unemployment on the continent is about 15 percent, and underemployment is a serious problem.the second thing that we did is that the quality of growth was not good enough. even those jobs we created were low-productivity jobs, so we moved people from low-productivity agriculture to low-productivity commerce and working in the informal sector in the urban areas.the third thing is that inequality increased. so we created more billionaires. 50 billionaires worth 96 billion dollars own more wealth than the bottom 75 million people on the continent.poverty, the proportion of people in poverty — that's the fourth thing — did decrease, but the absolute numbers did not because of population growth. and population growth is something that we don't have enough of a dialogue about on the continent. and i think we will need to get a handle on it, particularly how we educate girls. that is the road to really working on this particular issue.the fifth thing is that we didn't invest enough in infrastructure. we had investment from the chinese. that helped some countries, but it's not enough. the consumption of electricity in africa on the continent in sub-saharan africa is equivalent to spain. the total consumption is equivalent to that of spain. so many people are living in the dark, and as the president of the african development bank said recently, africa cannot develop in the dark.the other thing we have not done is that our economies retain the same structure that we've had for decades. so even though we've been growing, the structure of the economies has not changed very much. we are still exporting commodities, and exporting commodities is what? it's exporting jobs. our manufacturing value-added is only 11 percent. we are not creating enough decent manufacturing jobs for our youth, and trade among ourselves is low. only about 12 percent of our trade is among ourselves. so that's another serious problem.then governance. governance is a serious issue. we have weak institutions, and sometimes nonexistent institutions, and i think this gives way for corruption. corruption is an issue that we have not yet gotten a good enough handle on, and we have to fight tooth and nail, that and increased transparency in the way we manage our economies and the way we manage our finances.we also need to be wary of new conflicts, new types of conflicts, such as we have with boko haram in my country, nigeria, and with al-shabaab in kenya. we need to partner with international partners, developed countries, to fight this together. otherwise, we create a new reality which is not the type we want for a rising africa.and finally, the issue of education. our education systems in many countries are broken. we are not creating the types of skills needed for the future. so we have to find a way to educate better. so those are the things that we are not doing right.now, where do we go from there? i believe that the way forward is to learn to manage success. very often, when people succeed or countries succeed, they forget what made them succeed. learning what you're successful at, managing it and keeping it is vital for us. so all those things i said we did right, we have to learn to do it right again, keep doing it right. managing the economy while creating stability is vital, getting prices right, and policy consistency. very often, we are not consistent. one regime goes out, another comes in and they throw away even the functioning policies that were there before. what does this do? it creates uncertainty for people, for households, uncertainties for business. they don't know whether and how to invest.debt: we must manage the success we had in reducing our debt, but now countries are back to borrowing again, and we see our debt-to-gdp ratio beginning to creep up, and in certain countries, debt is becoming a problem, so we have to avoid that. so managing success.the next thing is focusing with a laser beam on those things we did not do well. first and foremost is infrastructure. yes, most countries now recognize they have to invest in this, and they are trying to do the best they can to do that. we must. the most important thing is power. you cannot develop in the dark.and then governance and corruption: we have to fight. we have to make our countries transparent. and above all, we have to engage our young people. we have genius in our young people. i see it every day. it's what makes me wake up in the morning and feel ready to go. we have to unleash the genius of our young people, get out of their way, support them to create and innovate and lead the way. and i know that they will lead us in the right direction.and our women, and our girls: we have to recognize that girls and women are a gift. they have strength, and we have to unleash that strength so that they can contribute to the continent.i strongly believe that when we do all of these things, we find that the rising africa narrative is not a fluke. it's a trend. it's a trend, and if we continue, if we unleash our youth, if we unleash our women, we may step backwards sometimes, we may even step sideways, but the trend is clear. africa will continue to rise.and i tell you businesspeople in the audience, investment in africa is not for today, is not for tomorrow, it's not a short-term thing, it's a longer term thing. but if you are not invested in africa, then you will be missing one of the most important emerging opportunities in the world.thank you. kelly stoetzel: so you mentioned corruption in your talk, and you're known, well-known as a strong anticorruption fighter. but that's had consequences. people have fought back, and your mother was kidnapped. how have you been handling this? ngozi okonjo-iweala: it's been very difficult. thank you for mentioning the issue of the kidnap of my mother. it's a very difficult subject. but what it means is that when you fight corruption, when you touch the pockets of people who are stealing money, they don't just keep quiet. they fight back, and the issue for you is when they try to intimidate you, do you give up, or do you fight on? do you find a way to stay on and fight back? and the answer that i had with the teams i worked with is we have to fight on. we have to create those institutions. we have to find ways to stop these people from taking away the heritage of the future. and so that's what we did. and even out of government, we continued to make that point. in our countries, nobody, nobody is going to fight corruption for us but us. and therefore, that comes with consequences, and we just have to do the best we can. but i thank you and thank ted for giving us a voice to say to those people, you will not win, and we will not be intimidated.thank you. kelly stoetzel: thank you so much for your great talk and important work. <title = "What a planet needs to sustain life">
<tags = "['Mars', 'Planets', 'TEDx', 'astrobiology', 'cosmos', 'data', 'discovery', 'exploration', 'extraterrestrial life', 'future', 'microbes', 'science', 'universe', 'water']">
<occupation = "Planetary scientist">
i'm really glad to be here. i'm glad you're here, because that would be a little weird. i'm glad we're all here. and by "here," i don't mean here. or here. but here. i mean earth. and by "we," i don't mean those of us in this auditorium, but life, all life on earth — from complex to single-celled, from mold to mushrooms to flying bears. the interesting thing is, earth is the only place we know of that has life — 8.7 million species. we've looked other places, maybe not as hard as we should or we could, but we've looked and haven't found any; earth is the only place we know of with life. is earth special? this is a question i've wanted to know the answer to since i was a small child, and i suspect 80 percent of this auditorium has thought the same thing and also wanted to know the answer. to understand whether there are any planets — out there in our solar system or beyond — that can support life, the first step is to understand what life here requires.it turns out, of all of those 8.7 million species, life only needs three things. on one side, all life on earth needs energy. complex life like us derives our energy from the sun, but life deep underground can get its energy from things like chemical reactions. there are a number of different energy sources available on all planets. on the other side, all life needs food or nourishment. and this seems like a tall order, especially if you want a succulent tomato. however, all life on earth derives its nourishment from only six chemical elements, and these elements can be found on any planetary body in our solar system. so that leaves the thing in the middle as the tall pole, the thing that's hardest to achieve. not moose, but water. although moose would be pretty cool. and not frozen water, and not water in a gaseous state, but liquid water. this is what life needs to survive, all life. and many solar system bodies don't have liquid water, and so we don't look there. other solar system bodies might have abundant liquid water, even more than earth, but it's trapped beneath an icy shell, and so it's hard to access, it's hard to get to, it's hard to even find out if there's any life there.so that leaves a few bodies that we should think about. so let's make the problem simpler for ourselves. let's think only about liquid water on the surface of a planet. there are only three bodies to think about in our solar system, with regard to liquid water on the surface of a planet, and in order of distance from the sun, it's: venus, earth and mars. you want to have an atmosphere for water to be liquid. you have to be very careful with that atmosphere. you can't have too much atmosphere, too thick or too warm an atmosphere, because then you end up too hot like venus, and you can't have liquid water. but if you have too little atmosphere and it's too thin and too cold, you end up like mars, too cold. so venus is too hot, mars is too cold, and earth is just right. you can look at these images behind me and you can see automatically where life can survive in our solar system. it's a goldilocks-type problem, and it's so simple that a child could understand it.however, i'd like to remind you of two things from the goldilocks story that we may not think about so often but that i think are really relevant here. number one: if mama bear's bowl is too cold when goldilocks walks into the room, does that mean it's always been too cold? or could it have been just right at some other time? when goldilocks walks into the room determines the answer that we get in the story. and the same is true with planets. they're not static things. they change. they vary. they evolve. and atmospheres do the same. so let me give you an example.here's one of my favorite pictures of mars. it's not the highest resolution image, it's not the sexiest image, it's not the most recent image, but it's an image that shows riverbeds cut into the surface of the planet; riverbeds carved by flowing, liquid water; riverbeds that take hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of years to form. this can't happen on mars today. the atmosphere of mars today is too thin and too cold for water to be stable as a liquid. this one image tells you that the atmosphere of mars changed, and it changed in big ways. and it changed from a state that we would define as habitable, because the three requirements for life were present long ago. where did that atmosphere go that allowed water to be liquid at the surface?well, one idea is it escaped away to space. atmospheric particles got enough energy to break free from the gravity of the planet, escaping away to space, never to return. and this happens with all bodies with atmospheres. comets have tails that are incredibly visible reminders of atmospheric escape. but venus also has an atmosphere that escapes with time, and mars and earth as well. it's just a matter of degree and a matter of scale. so we'd like to figure out how much escaped over time so we can explain this transition.how do atmospheres get their energy for escape? how do particles get enough energy to escape? there are two ways, if we're going to reduce things a little bit. number one, sunlight. light emitted from the sun can be absorbed by atmospheric particles and warm the particles. yes, i'm dancing, but they — oh my god, not even at my wedding. they get enough energy to escape and break free from the gravity of the planet just by warming. a second way they can get energy is from the solar wind. these are particles, mass, material, spit out from the surface of the sun, and they go screaming through the solar system at 400 kilometers per second, sometimes faster during solar storms, and they go hurtling through interplanetary space towards planets and their atmospheres, and they may provide energy for atmospheric particles to escape as well.this is something that i'm interested in, because it relates to habitability. i mentioned that there were two things about the goldilocks story that i wanted to bring to your attention and remind you about, and the second one is a little bit more subtle. if papa bear's bowl is too hot, and mama bear's bowl is too cold, shouldn't baby bear's bowl be even colder if we're following the trend? this thing that you've accepted your entire life, when you think about it a little bit more, may not be so simple. and of course, distance of a planet from the sun determines its temperature. this has to play into habitability. but maybe there are other things we should be thinking about. maybe it's the bowls themselves that are also helping to determine the outcome in the story, what is just right.i could talk to you about a lot of different characteristics of these three planets that may influence habitability, but for selfish reasons related to my own research and the fact that i'm standing up here holding the clicker and you're not — i would like to talk for just a minute or two about magnetic fields. earth has one; venus and mars do not. magnetic fields are generated in the deep interior of a planet by electrically conducting churning fluid material that creates this big old magnetic field that surrounds earth. if you have a compass, you know which way north is. venus and mars don't have that. if you have a compass on venus and mars, congratulations, you're lost. does this influence habitability? well, how might it? many scientists think that a magnetic field of a planet serves as a shield for the atmosphere, deflecting solar wind particles around the planet in a bit of a force field-type effect having to do with electric charge of those particles. i like to think of it instead as a salad bar sneeze guard for planets. and yes, my colleagues who watch this later will realize this is the first time in the history of our community that the solar wind has been equated with mucus. ok, so the effect, then, is that earth may have been protected for billions of years, because we've had a magnetic field. atmosphere hasn't been able to escape. mars, on the other hand, has been unprotected because of its lack of magnetic field, and over billions of years, maybe enough atmosphere has been stripped away to account for a transition from a habitable planet to the planet that we see today.other scientists think that magnetic fields may act more like the sails on a ship, enabling the planet to interact with more energy from the solar wind than the planet would have been able to interact with by itself. the sails may gather energy from the solar wind. the magnetic field may gather energy from the solar wind that allows even more atmospheric escape to happen. it's an idea that has to be tested, but the effect and how it works seems apparent. that's because we know energy from the solar wind is being deposited into our atmosphere here on earth. that energy is conducted along magnetic field lines down into the polar regions, resulting in incredibly beautiful aurora. if you've ever experienced them, it's magnificent. we know the energy is getting in. we're trying to measure how many particles are getting out and if the magnetic field is influencing this in any way.so i've posed a problem for you here, but i don't have a solution yet. we don't have a solution. but we're working on it. how are we working on it? well, we've sent spacecraft to all three planets. some of them are orbiting now, including the maven spacecraft which is currently orbiting mars, which i'm involved with and which is led here, out of the university of colorado. it's designed to measure atmospheric escape. we have similar measurements from venus and earth. once we have all our measurements, we can combine all these together, and we can understand how all three planets interact with their space environment, with the surroundings. and we can decide whether magnetic fields are important for habitability or not.once we have that answer, why should you care? i mean, i care deeply ... and financially as well, but deeply. first of all, an answer to this question will teach us more about these three planets, venus, earth and mars, not only about how they interact with their environment today, but how they were billions of years ago, whether they were habitable long ago or not. it will teach us about atmospheres that surround us and that are close. but moreover, what we learn from these planets can be applied to atmospheres everywhere, including planets that we're now observing around other stars. for example, the kepler spacecraft, which is built and controlled here in boulder, has been observing a postage stamp-sized region of the sky for a couple years now, and it's found thousands of planets — in one postage stamp-sized region of the sky that we don't think is any different from any other part of the sky.we've gone, in 20 years, from knowing of zero planets outside of our solar system, to now having so many, that we don't know which ones to investigate first. any lever will help. in fact, based on observations that kepler's taken and other similar observations, we now believe that, of the 200 billion stars in the milky way galaxy alone, on average, every star has at least one planet. in addition to that, estimates suggest there are somewhere between 40 billion and 100 billion of those planets that we would define as habitable in just our galaxy.we have the observations of those planets, but we just don't know which ones are habitable yet. it's a little bit like being trapped on a red spot — on a stage and knowing that there are other worlds out there and desperately wanting to know more about them, wanting to interrogate them and find out if maybe just one or two of them are a little bit like you. you can't do that. you can't go there, not yet. and so you have to use the tools that you've developed around you for venus, earth and mars, and you have to apply them to these other situations, and hope that you're making reasonable inferences from the data, and that you're going to be able to determine the best candidates for habitable planets, and those that are not.in the end, and for now, at least, this is our red spot, right here. this is the only planet that we know of that's habitable, although very soon we may come to know of more. but for now, this is the only habitable planet, and this is our red spot. i'm really glad we're here.thanks. <title = "A small country with big ideas to get rid of fossil fuels">
<tags = "['Natural resources', 'activism', 'alternative energy', 'climate change', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'environment', 'future', 'global development', 'global issues', 'history', 'humanity', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'law', 'nature', 'policy', 'pollution', 'social change', 'transportation']">
<occupation = "Climate advocate">
how do we build a society without fossil fuels?this is a very complex challenge, and i believe developing countries could take the lead in this transition. and i'm aware that this is a contentious statement, but the reality is that so much is at stake in our countries if we let fossil fuels stay at the center of our development. we can do it differently. and it's time, it really is time, to debunk the myth that a country has to choose between development on the one hand and environmental protection, renewables, quality of life, on the other.i come from costa rica, a developing country. we are nearly five million people, and we live right in the middle of the americas, so it's very easy to remember where we live. nearly 100 percent of our electricity comes from renewable sources, five of them. hydropower, geothermal, wind, solar, biomass.did you know that last year, for 299 days, we did not use any fossil fuels in order to generate all our electricity? it's a fantastic achievement, and yet, it hides a paradox, which is that nearly 70 percent of all our energy consumption is oil.why? because of our transportation system, which is totally dependent on fossil fuels, like it is in most countries. so if we think of the energy transition as a marathon, the question is, how do we get to the finish line, how do we decarbonize the rest of the economy? and it's fair to say that if we don't succeed, it's difficult to see who will. so that is why i want to talk to you about costa rica, because i believe we are a great candidate in pioneering a vision for development without fossil fuels.if you know one thing about our country, it's that we don't have an army. so i'm going to take you back to 1948. that year, the country was coming out of civil war. thousands of costa ricans had died, and families were bitterly split. and yet, a surprising idea won the hearts and minds: we would reboot the country, and that second republic would have no army. so we abolished it. and the president at the time, josé figueres, found a powerful way by smashing the walls of an army base. the following year, 1949, we made that decision permanent in the new constitution, and that is why i can tell you that story nearly 70 years later. and i'm grateful. i'm grateful they made that decision before i was born, because it allowed me and millions of others to live in a very stable country.and you might be thinking that it was good luck, but it wasn't. there was a pattern of deliberate choices. in the '40s, costa ricans were given free education and free health care. we called that social guarantees. by abolishing the army, we were able to turn military spending into social spending, and that was a driver of stability. in the '50s — in the '50s, we started investing in hydropower, and that kept us away from the trap of using fossil fuels for electricity generation, which is what the world is struggling with today. in the '70s we invested in national parks, and that kept us away from the deeply flawed logic of growth, growth, growth at any cost that you see others embracing, especially in the developing world. in the '90s, we pioneered payments for ecosystem services, and that helped us reverse deforestation and boosted ecotourism, which today is a key engine of growth. so investing in environmental protection did not hurt our economy. quite the opposite.and it doesn't mean we are perfect, and it doesn't mean we don't have contradictions. that's not the point. the point is that, by making our own choices, we were able to develop resilience in dealing with development problems.also, if you take a country like ours, the gdp per capita is around 11,000 dollars, depending on how you measure it. but according to the social progress index, we are an absolute outlier when it comes to turning gdp into social progress. abolishing the army, investing in nature and people, did something very powerful, too. it shaped the narrative, the narrative of a small country with big ideas, and it was very empowering to grow up with that narrative.so the question is, what is the next big idea for this generation? and i believe what comes next is for this generation to let go of fossil fuels for good, just as we did with the army.fossil fuels create climate change. we know that, and we know how vulnerable we are to the impacts of climate change. so as a developing country, it is in our best interest to build development without fossil fuels that harm people in the first place. because why would we continue importing oil for transportation if we can use electricity instead?remember, this is the country where electricity comes from water in our rivers, heat from volcanoes, wind turbines, solar panels, biowaste. abolishing fossil fuels means disrupting our transportation system so that we can power our cars, buses and trains with electricity instead of dirty energy.and transportation, let me tell you, has become an existential issue for us costa ricans, because the model we have is not working for us. it's hurting people, it's hurting companies, and it's hurting our health.because when policies and infrastructure fail, this is what happens on a daily basis. two hours in the morning, two hours in the evening. i don't understand why we have to accept this as normal. it's offensive to have to waste our time like this every single day. and this highway is actually quite good compared to what you see in other countries where traffic is exploding. you know, costa ricans call this "presa." presa means "imprisoned." and people are turning violent in a country that is otherwise happy in pura vida. it's happening. so a lot is at stake.the good news is that when we talk about clean transportation and different mobility, we're not talking about some distant utopia out there. we're talking about electric mobility that is happening today. by 2022, electric cars and conventional cars are expected to cost the same, and cities are already trying electric buses. and these really cool creatures are saving money, and they reduce pollution. so if we want to get rid of oil-based transportation, we can, because we have options now that we didn't have before. it's really exciting.but of course, some get very uncomfortable with this idea, and they will come and they will tell you that the world is stuck with oil, and so is costa rica, so get real. that's what they tell you. and you know what the answer to that argument is? that in 1948, we didn't say the world is stuck with armies, so let's keep our army, too. no, we made a very brave choice, and that choice made the whole difference.so it's time for this generation to be brave again and abolish fossil fuels for good. and i'll give you three reasons why we have to do this.first, our model of transportation and urbanization is broken, so this is the best moment to redefine our urban and mobility future. we don't want cities that are built for cars. we want cities for people where we can walk and we can use bikes. and we want public transportation, lots of it, public transportation that is clean and dignifying. because if we continue adding fleets of conventional cars, our cities will become unbearable.second, we have to change, but incremental change is not going to be sufficient. we need transformational change. and there are some incremental projects in my country, and i am the first one to celebrate them. but let's not kid ourselves. we're not talking about ending up with really beautiful electric cars here and a few electric buses there while we keep investing in the same kind of infrastructure, more cars, more roads, more oil. we're talking about breaking free from oil, and you cannot get there through incrementalism.third, and you know this one, the world is hungry for inspiration. it craves stories of success in dealing with complex issues, especially in developing countries. so i believe costa rica can be an inspiration to others, as we did last year when we disclosed that for so many days we were not using any fossil fuels in order to generate all our electricity. the news went viral around the world. also, and this makes me extremely proud, a costa rican woman, christiana figueres, played a decisive role in the negotiations of the paris climate agreement. so we have to protect that legacy and be an example.so what comes next? the people. how do we get people to own this? how do we get people to believe that it's possible to build a society without fossil fuels? a lot of work from the ground up is needed.that is why, in 2014, we created costa rica limpia. "limpia" means "clean," because we want to empower and we want to inspire citizens. if citizens don't get engaged, clean transportation decisions will be bogged down by endless, and i mean endless, technical discussions, and by avalanches of lobbying by various established interests. wanting to be a green country powered by renewables is already part of our story. we should not let anybody take that away from us.last year, we brought people from our seven provinces to talk about climate change in terms that matter to them, and we also brought this year another group of costa ricans to talk about renewable energy. and you know what? these people disagree on almost everything except on renewable energy and clean transportation and clean air. it brings people together.and the key to real participation is to help people not to feel small. people feel powerless, and they are tired of not being heard. so what we do is concrete things, and we translate technical issues into citizen language to show that citizens have a role to play and can play it together. for the first time, we're tracking the promises that were made on clean transportation, and politicos know that they have to deliver it, but the tipping point will come when we form coalitions — citizens, companies, champions of public transportation — that will make electric mobility the new normal, especially in a developing country.by the time the next election comes, i believe every candidate will have to disclose where they stand on the abolition of fossil fuels. because this question has to enter our mainstream politics. and i'm telling you, this is not a question of climate policy or environmental agenda. it's about the country that we want and the cities that we have and the cities that we want and who makes that choice. because at the end of the day, what we have to show is that development with renewable energy is good for the people, for costa ricans that are alive today and especially for those who haven't been born.this is our national museum today. it's bright and peaceful, and when you stand up in front of it, it's really hard to believe these were military barracks at the end of the '40s. we started a new life without an army in this place, and here is where our abolition of fossil fuels will be announced one day. and we will make history again.thank you. <title = "3 moons and a planet that could have alien life">
<tags = "['Mars', 'NASA', 'astrobiology', 'astronomy', 'chemistry', 'data', 'extraterrestrial life', 'innovation', 'life', 'microbes', 'microbiology', 'nature', 'physics', 'science', 'solar system', 'technology', 'universe', 'water']">
<occupation = " Space physicist">
is there life beyond earth in our solar system?wow, what a powerful question. you know, as a scientist — planetary scientist — we really didn't take that very seriously until recently.carl sagan always said, "it takes extraordinary evidence for extraordinary claims." and the claims of having life beyond earth need to be definitive, they need to be loud and they need to be everywhere for us to be able to believe it.so how do we make this journey? what we decided to do is first look for those ingredients for life. the ingredients of life are: liquid water — we have to have a solvent, can't be ice, has to be liquid. we also have to have energy. we also have to have organic material — things that make us up, but also things that we need to consume.so we have to have these elements in environments for long periods of time for us to be able to be confident that life, in that moment when it starts, can spark and then grow and evolve.well, i have to tell you that early in my career, when we looked at those three elements, i didn't believe that they were beyond earth in any length of time and for any real quantity.why? we look at the inner planets. venus is way too hot — it's got no water. mars — dry and arid. it's got no water. and beyond mars, the water in the solar system is all frozen.but recent observations have changed all that. it's now turning our attention to the right places for us to take a deeper look and really start to answer our life question.so when we look out into the solar system, where are the possibilities? we're concentrating our attention on four locations. the planet mars and then three moons of the outer planets: titan, europa and small enceladus.so what about mars? let's go through the evidence. well, mars we thought was initially moon-like: full of craters, arid and a dead world.and so about 15 years ago, we started a series of missions to go to mars and see if water existed on mars in its past that changed its geology. we ought to be able to notice that. and indeed we started to be surprised right away. our higher resolution images show deltas and river valleys and gulleys that were there in the past. and in fact, curiosity — which has been roving on the surface now for about three years — has really shown us that it's sitting in an ancient river bed, where water flowed rapidly. and not for a little while, perhaps hundreds of millions of years. and if everything was there, including organics, perhaps life had started.curiosity has also drilled in that red soil and brought up other material. and we were really excited when we saw that. because it wasn't red mars, it was gray material, it's gray mars. we brought it into the rover, we tasted it, and guess what? we tasted organics — carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur — they were all there.so mars in its past, with a lot of water, perhaps plenty of time, could have had life, could have had that spark, could have grown. and is that life still there? we don't know that.but a few years ago we started to look at a number of craters. during the summer, dark lines would appear down the sides of these craters. the more we looked, the more craters we saw, the more of these features. we now know more than a dozen of them.a few months ago the fairy tale came true. we announced to the world that we know what these streaks are. it's liquid water. these craters are weeping during the summer. liquid water is flowing down these craters. so what are we going to do now — now that we see the water? well, it tells us that mars has all the ingredients necessary for life. in its past it had perhaps two-thirds of its northern hemisphere — there was an ocean. it has weeping water right now. liquid water on its surface. it has organics. it has all the right conditions.so what are we going to do next? we're going to launch a series of missions to begin that search for life on mars. and now it's more appealing than ever before.as we move out into the solar system, here's the tiny moon enceladus. this is not in what we call the traditional habitable zone, this area around the sun. this is much further out. this object should be ice over a silicate core.but what did we find? cassini was there since 2006, and after a couple years looked back after it flew by enceladus and surprised us all. enceladus is blasting sheets of water out into the solar system and sloshing back down onto the moon. what a fabulous environment. cassini just a few months ago also flew through the plume, and it measured silicate particles. where does the silica come from? it must come from the ocean floor. the tidal energy is generated by saturn, pulling and squeezing this moon — is melting that ice, creating an ocean. but it's also doing that to the core.now, the only thing that we can think of that does that here on earth as an analogy ... are hydrothermal vents. hydrothermal vents deep in our ocean were discovered in 1977. oceanographers were completely surprised. and now there are thousands of these below the ocean.what do we find? the oceanographers, when they go and look at these hydrothermal vents, they're teeming with life, regardless of whether the water is acidic or alkaline — doesn't matter. so hydrothermal vents are a fabulous abode for life here on earth.so what about enceladus? well, we believe because it has water and has had it for a significant period of time, and we believe it has hydrothermal vents with perhaps the right organic material, it is a place where life could exist. and not just microbial — maybe more complex because it's had time to evolve.another moon, very similar, is europa. galileo visited jupiter's system in 1996 and made fabulous observations of europa. europa, we also know, has an under-the-ice crust ocean. galileo mission told us that, but we never saw any plumes. but we didn't look for them.hubble, just a couple years ago, observing europa, saw plumes of water spraying from the cracks in the southern hemisphere, just exactly like enceladus.these moons, which are not in what we call a traditional habitable zone, that are out in the solar system, have liquid water. and if there are organics there, there may be life.this is a fabulous set of discoveries because these moons have been in this environment like that for billions of years. life started here on earth, we believe, after about the first 500 million, and look where we are. these moons are fabulous moons.another moon that we're looking at is titan. titan is a huge moon of saturn. it perhaps is much larger than the planet mercury. it has an extensive atmosphere. it's so extensive — and it's mostly nitrogen with a little methane and ethane — that you have to peer through it with radar.and on the surface, cassini has found liquid. we see lakes ... actually almost the size of our black sea in some places. and this area is not liquid water; it's methane. if there's any place in the solar system where life is not like us, where the substitute of water is another solvent — and it could be methane — it could be titan.well, is there life beyond earth in the solar system? we don't know yet, but we're hot on the pursuit. the data that we're receiving is really exciting and telling us — forcing us to think about this in new and exciting ways. i believe we're on the right track. that in the next 10 years, we will answer that question. and if we answer it, and it's positive, then life is everywhere in the solar system. just think about that. we may not be alone.thank you. <title = "Hunting for Peru's lost civilizations -- with satellites">
<tags = "['South America', 'TED Fellows', 'TED Prize', 'adventure', 'ancient world', 'archaeology', 'conservation', 'crowdsourcing', 'culture', 'curiosity', 'discovery', 'exploration', 'global issues', 'history', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'space', 'technology', 'world cultures']">
<occupation = "Satellite archaeologist + TED Prize winner">
in july of 1911, a 35-year-old yale graduate and professor set out from his rainforest camp with his team. after climbing a steep hill and wiping the sweat from his brow, he described what he saw beneath him. he saw rising from the dense rainforest foliage this incredible interlocking maze of structures built of granite, beautifully put together.what's amazing about this project is that it was the first funded by national geographic, and it graced the front cover of its magazine in 1912. this professor used state-of-the-art photography equipment to record the site, forever changing the face of exploration.the site was machu picchu, discovered and explored by hiram bingham. when he saw the site, he asked, "this is an impossible dream. what could it be?"so today, 100 years later, i invite you all on an incredible journey with me, a 37-year-old yale graduate and professor.(cheers)we will do nothing less than use state-of-the-art technology to map an entire country. this is a dream started by hiram bingham, but we are expanding it to the world, making archaeological exploration more open, inclusive, and at a scale simply not previously possible.this is why i am so excited to share with you all today that we will begin the 2016 ted prize platform in latin america, more specifically peru. thank you.we will be taking hiram bingham's impossible dream and turning it into an amazing future that we can all share in together.so peru doesn't just have machu picchu. it has absolutely stunning jewelry, like what you can see here. it has amazing moche pottery of human figures. it has the nazca lines and amazing textiles. so as part of the ted prize platform, we are going to partnering with some incredible organizations, first of all with digitalglobe, the world's largest provider of high-resolution commercial satellite imagery. they're going to be helping us build out this amazing crowdsourcing platform they have. maybe some of you used it with the mh370 crash and search for the airplane. of course, they'll also be providing us with the satellite imagery. national geographic will be helping us with education and of course exploration. as well, they'll be providing us with rich content for the platform, including some of the archival imagery like you saw at the beginning of this talk and some of their documentary footage. we've already begun to build and plan the platform, and i'm just so excited.so here's the cool part. my team, headed up by chase childs, is already beginning to look at some of the satellite imagery. of course, what you can see here is 0.3-meter data. this is site called chan chan in northern peru. it dates to 850 ad. it's a really amazing city, but let's zoom in. this is the type and quality of data that you all will get to see. you can see individual structures, individual buildings. and we've already begun to find previously unknown sites. what we can say already is that as part of the platform, you will all help discover thousands of previously unknown sites, like this one here, and this potentially large one here. unfortunately, we've also begun to uncover large-scale looting at sites, like what you see here. so many sites in peru are threatened, but the great part is that all of this data is going to be shared with archaeologists on the front lines of protecting these sites.so i was just in peru, meeting with their minister of culture as well as unesco. we'll be collaborating closely with them. just so you all know, the site is going to be in both english and spanish, which is absolutely essential to make sure that people in peru and across latin america can participate. our main project coprincipal investigator is the gentleman you see here, dr. luis jaime castillo, professor at catholic university. as a respected peruvian archaeologist and former vice-minister, dr. castillo will be helping us coordinate and share the data with archaeologists so they can explore these sites on the ground. he also runs this amazing drone mapping program, some of the images of which you can see behind me here and here. and this data will be incorporated into the platform, and also he'll be helping to image some of the new sites you help find.our on-the-ground partner who will be helping us with education, outreach, as well as site preservation components, is the sustainable preservation initiative, led by dr. larry coben. some of you may not be aware that some of the world's poorest communities coexist with some of the world's most well-known archaeological sites. what spi does is it helps to empower these communities, in particular women, with new economic approaches and business training. so it helps to teach them to create beautiful handicrafts which are then sold on to tourists. this empowers the women to treasure their cultural heritage and take ownership of it. i had the opportunity to spend some time with 24 of these women at a well-known archaeological site called pachacamac, just outside lima. these women were unbelievably inspiring, and what's great is that spi will help us transform communities near some of the sites that you help to discover.peru is just the beginning. we're going to be expanding this platform to the world, but already i've gotten thousands of emails from people all across the world — professors, educators, students, and other archaeologists — who are so excited to help participate. in fact, they're already suggesting amazing places for us to help discover, including atlantis. i don't know if we're going to be looking for atlantis, but you never know.so i'm just so excited to launch this platform. it's going to be launched formally by the end of the year. and i have to say, if what my team has already discovered in the past few weeks are any indication, what the world discovers is just going to be beyond imagination. make sure to hold on to your alpacas.thank you very much. thank you. <title = "A letter to all who have lost in this era">
<tags = "['collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'compassion', 'democracy', 'fear', 'government', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'politics', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Writer">
june 29, 2016.my dear fellow citizen:i write to you today, to you who have lost in this era. at this moment in our common life, when the world is full of breaking and spite and fear,i address this letter simply to you, even though we both know there are many of you behind this "you," and many of me behind this "i."i write to you because at present, this quaking world we share scares me. i gather it scares you, too. some of what we fear, i suspect, we fear in common. but much of what we fear seems to be each other. you fear the world i want to live in, and i fear your visions in turn.do you know that feeling you get when you know it's going to storm before it storms? do you also feel that now, fellow citizen? that malaise and worry that some who know feel reminds them of the 1930s?perhaps you don't, because our fears of each other are not in sync. in this round, i sense that your fears of me, of the world that i have insisted is right for us both, has gathered over a generation. it took time for your fears to trigger my fears, not least because at first, i never thought i needed to fear you.i heard you but did not listen, all these years when you said that this amazing new world wasn't amazing for you, for many of you, across the industrialized world; that the open, liquid world i relished, of people and goods and technologies flowing freely, going where they pleased, globally, was not, for you, an emancipation.i have walked through your towns and, while looking, failed to see. i did notice in stephenville, texas, that the town square was dominated by one lawyer's office after another, because of all the people rotating in and out of the prison. i did notice the barren shops in wagner, south dakota, and the vfw gathering hall that stood in mockery of a community's dream to endure. i did notice at the lancaster, pennsylvania wal-mart, that far too many people in their 20s and 30s looked a decade or two from death, with patchy, flared-up skin and thinning, stringy hair and browning, ground-down teeth and a lostness in their eyes.i did notice that the young people i encountered in paris, in florence, in barcelona, had degrees but no place to take them, living on internships well into their 30s, their lives prevented from launching, because of an economy that creates wealth — just not jobs. i did notice the news about those parts of london becoming ghost quarters, where the global super-rich turn fishy money into empty apartments and price lifelong residents of a city, young couples starting out, out of their own home.and i heard that the fabric of your life was tearing. you used to be able to count on work, and now you couldn't. you used to be able to nourish your children, and guarantee that they would climb a little bit further in life than you had, and now you couldn't. you used to be made to feel dignity in your work, and now you didn't. it used to be normal for people like you to own a home, and now it wasn't.i cannot say i didn't know these things, but i was distracted creating a future in which we could live on mars, even as you struggled down here on earth. i was distracted innovating immortality, even as many of you began to live shorter lives than your parents had.i heard all of these things, but i didn't listen. i looked but didn't see. i read, didn't understand.i paid attention only when you began to vote and shout, and when your voting and shouting, when the substance of it, began to threaten me.i listened only when you moved toward shattering continental unions and electing vulgar demagogues.only then did your pain become of interest to me.i know that feeling hurt is often prologue to dealing hurt. i wonder now if you would be less eager to deal it if i had stood with you when you merely felt it.i ask myself why i didn't stand with you then.one reason is that i became entranced by the gurus of change, became a worshiper of the religion of the new for novelty's sake, and of globalization and open borders and kaleidoscopic diversity.once change became my totalizing faith, i could be blind. i could fail to see change's consequences. i could overlook the importance of roots, traditions, rituals, stability — and belonging.and the more fundamentalist i became in my worship of change and openness, the more i drove you towards the other polarity, to cling, to freeze, to close, to belong.i now see as i didn't before that not having the right skin or right organ is not the only varietal of disadvantage. there is a subtler, quieter disadvantage in having those privileged traits and yet feeling history to be moving away from you; that while the past was hospitable to people like you, the future will be more hospitable to others; that the world is growing less familiar, less yours day by day.i will not concede for a moment that old privileges should not dwindle. they cannot dwindle fast enough. it is for you to learn to live in a new century in which there are no bonuses for showing up with the right skin and right organs. if and when your anger turns to hate, please know that there is no space for that in our shared home. but i will admit, fellow citizen, that i have discounted the burden of coping with the loss of status. i have forgotten that what is socially necessary can also be personally gruelling.a similar thing happened with the economy that you and i share. just as i cannot and don't wish to turn back to the clock on equality and diversity, and yet must understand the sense of loss they can inspire, so, too, i refuse and could not if i wished turn back the clock on an ever more closely knit, interdependent world, and on inventions that won't stop being invented. and yet i must understand your experience of these things.you have for years been telling me that your experience of these things is not as good as my theories forecast.yet before you could finish a complaining sentence about the difficulty of living with erratic hours, volatile pay, vanishing opportunities, about the pain of dropping your children off at 24-hour day care to make your 3am shift, i shot back at you — before you could finish your sentence — my dogma, about how what you are actually experiencing was flexibility and freedom.language is one of the only things that we truly share, and i sometimes used this joint inheritance to obfuscate and deflect and justify myself; to re-brand what was good for me as something appearing good for us both, when i threw around terms like "the sharing economy," and "disruption" and "global resourcing."i see now that what i was really doing, at times, was buying your pain on the cheap, sprucing it up and trying to sell it back to you as freedom.i have wanted to believe and wanted you to believe that the system that has been good to me, that has made my life ever more seamless, is also the best system for you.i have condescended to you with the idea that you are voting against your economic interests — voting against your interests, as if i know your interests. that is just my dogmatic economism talking. i have a weakness for treating people's economic interests as their only interest, ignoring things like belonging and pride and the desire to send a message to those who ignore you.so here we are, in a scary but not inexplicable moment of demagoguery, fracture, xenophobia, resentment and fear.and i worry for us both if we continue down this road, me not listening, you feeling unheard, you shouting to get me to listen.i worry when each of us is seduced by visions of the future that have no place for the other.if this goes on, if this goes on, there may be blood. there are already hints of this blood in newspapers every day. there may be roundups, raids, deportations, camps, secessions. and no, i do not think that i exaggerate. there may be even talk of war in places that were certain they were done with it.there is always the hope of redemption. but it will not be a cheap, shallow redemption that comes through blather about us all being in it together. this will take more.it will take accepting that we both made choices to be here.we create our "others." as parents, as neighbors, as citizens, we witness and sometimes ignore each other into being.you were not born vengeful. i have some role in whatever thirst you now feel for revenge, and that thirst now tempts me to plot ever more elaborate escapes from our common life, from the schools and neighborhoods and airports and amusement parks that we used to share.we face, then, a problem not of these large, impersonal forces. we face a problem of your and my relations. we chose ways of relating to each other that got us here. we can choose ways of relating that get us out.but there are things we might have to let go of, fellow citizen, starting with our own cherished versions of reality.imagine if you let go of fantasies of a society purged of these or those people. imagine if i let go of my habit of saving the world behind your back, of deliberating on the future of your work, your food, your schools, in places where you couldn't get past security.we can do this only if we first accept that we have neglected each other. if there is hope to summon in this ominous hour, it is this. we have, for too long, chased various shimmering dreams at the cost of attention to the foundational dream of each other, the dream of tending to each other, of unleashing each other's wonders, of moving through history together. we could dare to commit to the dream of each other as the thing that matters before every neon thing.let us dare.sincerely yours,a fellow citizen. <title = "How Argentina's blind soccer team became champions">
<tags = "['Blindness', 'TED en Español', 'TEDx', 'collaboration', 'community', 'disability', 'education', 'personal growth', 'sports']">
<occupation = "Lawyer, coach">
i opened a blind man's head. i didn't make him think or reflect — i cracked his head open, literally. we were walking with him holding onto my shoulder, i miscalculated how much space there was between us, and i knocked him into a gate. five stitches in his forehead. at that moment, i felt like the worst teacher in the world. i really didn't know how to apologize. luckily, el pulga is one of those people who takes things quite well. and to this day, he says that i was the coach who left the most important mark on his career. the truth is, when i started working at the institute for the blind, i was surprised by a lot of things. a lot of the things they did, i never imagined they could: they swam, did exercise, played cards. they drank mate, and could pour it without burning themselves in the process.but when i saw them playing soccer — that was amazing. they had a dirt field, rusty goalposts and broken nets. the blind who attended the institute would play their games there, just like i did at a field near my house. but they played without being able to see. the ball made a sound so they could locate it. they had a guide behind the rival team's goal to know where to kick the ball. and they used eye masks. there were guys who could still see a little, and they wore eye masks so everyone was equal.when i was more at ease with them, i asked for a mask myself. i put it on and tried to play. i had played soccer all my life. this is where it got even more amazing: within two seconds, i didn't know where i was standing. i had studied physical education because i loved high performance.i started working at the institute by chance. my other job was with the argentinian national rowing team, and i felt that was my thing. here, everything was twice as hard. i'll never forget the first day i did the warm-up with the team. i lined them up in front of me — i used to do that with the rowing team — and i said, "ok, everyone bend down," going like this. when i looked up, two guys were seated, three were lying down and others were squatting. how could i do here the same things i was doing there? it took me a while. i started looking for tools to learn from them, from the teachers who worked with them. i learned i couldn't explain a play on a chalkboard like a coach does, but i could use a plastic tray and some bottle caps so they could follow me by way of touch. i also learned they could run on a track if i ran with them, holding a rope. so we started looking for volunteers to help us run with them.i was enjoying it, and finding purpose and meaning in what we were doing. it was hard at first, it was uncomfortable, but i decided to overcome the discomfort. and there came a time when it became the most fascinating job i'd ever had.i think that's when i wondered: why couldn't we be a high-performance team as well? of course, one thing was missing: i needed to find out what they wanted, the real protagonists of this story. three hours of training, playing soccer on that field, were not going to be enough. we would have to train differently.we started to train harder, and the results were great; they asked for more. i came to understand that they, too, wondered why they couldn't do high-performance. when we felt ready, we knocked at cenard's door. cenard is the national center for high-performance sports here in argentina. it was hard to get them to hear what we had to say. but it was considerably more difficult to get the other athletes training there to consider us their equals. in fact, they would let us use the field only when no other teams were using it. and we were known as "the blind ones." not everyone knew exactly what we were doing there.the 2006 world championship was a turning point in the team's history. it was held in buenos aires for the first time. it was our chance to show everyone what we had been doing all that time. we made it to the finals. we were growing as a team.it was us against brazil in the finals. they were the best team in the tournament. they won every game by a landslide. hardly anyone believed we could win that game. hardly anyone — except for us.during pre-game meetings, in the locker room, during each warm-up, it smelled of victory. i swear that smell exists. i smelled it several times with the team, but i remember it in particular, the day before we played that final. the argentine football association had opened their doors to us.we were training at afa, where verón, higuain and messi trained. for the first time ever, we felt like a true national team. at 7:30pm, the day before the game, we were in the lounge discussing strategy, and a waiter knocks on the door, interrupting our conversation. he suggested we go to church. he came to invite us to church. i tried to get rid of him, saying it wasn't a good time, that we better leave it for another day. he kept insisting, asking me to please let him take the guys to church, because that day, a pastor who performed miracles would be there.i was slightly afraid to ask what type of miracles he meant, and he replied nonchalantly, "coach, let me take the team to the church, and when we return, i guarantee that half of them will be able to see." some of the guys laughed, but imagine being a blind person and someone says that to you. i didn't know what to say. i said nothing; it was an awkward silence. i didn't want to make him feel bad, because he truly believed this could happen.one of the players saved me, when he stood up and confidently said, "juan," — that was the kid's name — gonza already told you it's not the best time to go to church. besides, let me make this clear: if we go to that church, and i end up being able to see when we return, i will beat you so hard if i can't play tomorrow." juan left, laughing in resignation, and we continued with our pregame talk. that night when i went to sleep, i began to dream about the next day's game, imagining what could happen, how we would play. and that's when i noticed that smell of victory i mentioned a while ago. and it's because at that moment, i thought: if the other players had the same desire as diego going into the game, it was impossible for us not to win.the next day was going to be wonderful. we got up at 9am, the game was at 7pm, and we were already eager to play. we left afa, and the bus was full of flags that people had given to us. we were talking about the game, and we could hear people honking and cheering, "go murciélagos! today's the day! the final challenge!"the guys asked me, "do they know us? do they know we're playing?" some people followed the bus to cenard. we arrived and found an amazing scene. in the corridor leading from the locker room to the game field, i was walking with silvio, who was holding onto my shoulder, so i could guide him. fortunately, there were no gates along the way. when we reached the field, he asked me about everything. he didn't want to miss a single detail. he said, "tell me what you see, tell me who's playing the drums."i tried to explain what was happening with as much detail as possible. i told him, "the stands are packed, a lot of people couldn't get in, there are blue and white balloons all over the field, they're opening a giant argentine flag that covers the entire grandstand."suddenly, he cuts me off and says, "do you see a flag that says 'san pedro'?" that's the city where he lives. i started looking into the stands and i spotted a little white flag with lettering done in black spray paint, that read: "silvio, your family and all of san pedro are here."i told him that and he replied, "that's my mom, tell me where she is, i want to i wave at her." i pointed him toward the flag and showed him with his arm where they were sitting, and he waved his arms in that direction. about 20 or 30 people stood up and gave him an ovation. when that happened, i saw how his face changed, how moved he was. it was moving for me, too; two seconds later, i had a lump in my throat. it was strange — i felt both the excitement of what was happening, and the anger and the anguish that he could not see it.a few days later when i told him what i had experienced, he tried to reassure me, saying, "gonza, don't feel bad, i could see them. differently, but i swear to you that i saw them all."the game started. we could not fail; it was the final. the audience was quiet, like here, because in soccer for the blind, the public has to be quiet so the players can hear the ball. they're only allowed to cheer when the game is over.and when there were eight minutes to go, the crowd did all the cheering they hadn't done in the first 32 minutes. when pigeon-toed silvio nailed the ball at an angle, they cheered with all their heart, in an incredible way.today, if you go to cenard, you'll see a huge poster on the door, with a photo of our team, los murciélagos. they're a model national team, everyone in cenard knows who they are, and after having won two world championships and two paralympic medals, no one doubts they are high-performance athletes. (applause ends)i was lucky to train this team for 10 years, first as a trainer and later as their coach. i feel that they've given me much more than what i've given them.last year, they asked me to coach another national team, power soccer. it's a national team of young men who play soccer in wheelchairs. they use motorized wheelchairs that they drive with a joystick, because they don't have enough strength in their arms to use conventional chairs. they added a bumper to the chair, a safeguard that protects their feet, while allowing them to kick the ball. it's the first time that, instead of being the spectators, they're now the main characters. it's the first time their parents, friends and siblings can see them play.for me, it's a new challenge, with the same discomfort, insecurity, and fear i had when i started working with the blind. but i approach it all from a more experienced position. that's why from day one, i treat them as athletes on the field, and off the field, i try to put myself in their shoes and behave without prejudice, because treating them naturally feels best to them.both teams play soccer; something once unthinkable for them. they had to adapt the rules to do so. and both teams broke the same rule — the one that said they couldn't play soccer.when you see them play, you see competition, not disability. the problem starts when the game is over, and they leave the field. then they step in to play our game, in a society whose rules don't really take them into account or care for them.i learned from sports that disability greatly depends on the rules of the game. i believe that if we change some of the rules of our game, we can make life a little easier for them.we all know there are people with disabilities; we see them daily. but by having no direct contact with them, we're not aware of the problems they face every day, like how hard it is for them to get on a bus, find a job, take the subway or cross the street.it's true that there is an increasing social responsibility regarding the inclusion of people with disabilities. but i think it's still not enough. i think change needs to come from every one of us. first, by leaving behind our indifference toward the disabled, and then by respecting the rules that do take them into account. they are few, but they do exist.i cracked a blind man's head open — el pulga's head. i can assure you these two teams opened mine as well. they taught me that above all, you have to get out there and play every game in this beautiful tournament that we call life.thank you. <title = "The next manufacturing revolution is here">
<tags = "['business', 'economics', 'engineering', 'global development', 'industrial design', 'innovation', 'manufacturing', 'product design', 'technology', 'work']">
<occupation = "Industrial systems thinker">
guys, we have an issue. growth is fading away, and it's a big deal. our global economy stops growing. and it's not new. growth has actually declined for the last 50 years. if we continue like this, we need to learn how to live in a world with no growth in the next decade. this is scary because when the economy doesn't grow, our children don't get better lives. what's even scarier is that when the pie does not grow, each of us get a smaller piece. we're then ready to fight for a bigger one. this creates tensions and serious conflicts. growth matters a lot.if we look at the history of growth, times of big growth have always been fueled by big manufacturing revolutions. it happened three times, every 50-60 years. the steam engine in the middle of the 19th century, the mass-production model in the beginning of the 20th century — thanks, mr. ford. and the first automation wave in the 1970s.why did these manufacturing revolutions create huge growth in our economies? because they have injected huge productivity improvement. it's rather simple: in order to grow, you need to be producing more, putting more into our economy. this means either more labor or more capital or more productivity. each time, productivity has been the growth lever.i'm here today to tell you that we are on the verge of another huge change, and that this change, surprisingly enough, is going to come from manufacturing, again. it will get us out of our growth slump and it will change radically the way globalization has been shaped over the last decade. i'm here to tell you about the amazing fourth manufacturing revolution that is currently underway.it's not as if we've done nothing with manufacturing since the last revolution. actually, we've made some pretty lame attempts to try to revitalize it. but none of them have been the big overhaul we really need to get us growing again. for example, we've tried to relocate our factories offshore in order to reduce cost and take advantage of cheap labor. not only did this not inspire productivity, but it only saved money for a short period of time, because cheap labor didn't stay cheap for long. then, we've tried to make our factories larger and we specialized them by product. the idea was that we can make a lot of one product and stockpile it to be sold with demand.this did help productivity for a while. but it introduced a lot of rigidities in our supply chain. let's take fashion retail. traditional clothing companies have built offshore, global, rigid supply chains. when fast-fashion competitors like zara started replenishing their stocks faster from two collections a year to one collection a month, none of them have been able to keep up with the pace. most of them are in great difficulties today.yet, with all of their shortcomings, those are the factories we know today. when you open the doors, they look the same as they did 50 years ago. we've just changed the location, the size, the way they operate. can you name anything else that looks the same as it did 50 years ago? it's crazy. we've made all the tweaks to the model that we could, and now we hit its limits.after all of our attempts to fix the manufacturing model failed, we thought growth could come from elsewhere. we turned to the tech sector — there's been quite a lot of innovations there. just to name one: the internet. we hoped it could produce growth. and indeed, it changed our lives. it made big waves in the media, the service, the entertainment spaces. but it hasn't done much for productivity. actually, what's surprising is that productivity is on the decline despite all of those innovation efforts. imagine that — sitting at work, scrolling through facebook, watching videos on youtube has made us less productive. weird. this is why we are not growing. we failed at reinventing the manufacturing space, and large technological innovations have played away from it. but what if we could combine those forces? what if the existing manufacturing and large technological innovation came together to create the next big manufacturing reinvention.bingo! this is the fourth manufacturing revolution, and it's happening right now. major technologies are entering the manufacturing space, big time. they will boost industrial productivity by more than a third. this is massive, and it will do a lot in creating growth. let me tell you about some of them.have you already met advanced manufacturing robots? they are the size of humans, they actually collaborate with them, and they can be programmed in order to perform complex, non-repetitive tasks. today in our factories, only 8 percent of the tasks are automated. the less complex, the more repetitive ones. it will be 25 percent in 10 years. it means that by 2025, advanced robots will complement workers to be, together, 20 percent more productive, to manufacture 20 percent more outputs, to achieve 20 percent additional growth.this isn't some fancy, futuristic idea. these robots are working for us right now. last year in the us, they helped amazon prepare and ship all the products required for cyber monday, the annual peak of online retail. last year in the us, it was the biggest online shopping day of the year and of history. consumers spent 3 billion dollars on electronics that day. that's real economic growth.then there's additive manufacturing, 3d printing. 3d printing has already improved plastic manufacturing and it's now making its way through metal. those are not small industries. plastic and metals represent 25 percent of global manufacturing production.let's take a real example. in the aerospace industry, fuel nozzles are some of the most complex parts to manufacture, for one reason: they are made up of 20 different parts that need to be separately produced and then painstakingly assembled. aerospace companies are now using 3d printing, which allows them to turn those 20 different parts into just one. the results? 40 percent more productivity, 40 percent more output produced, 40 percent more growth for this specific industry.but actually, the most exciting part of this new manufacturing revolution goes much beyond productivity. it's about producing better, smarter products. it's about scale customization. imagine a world where you can buy the exact products you want with the functionalities you need, with the design you want, with the same cost and lead time as a product that's been mass produced, like your car, or your clothes or your cell phone. the new manufacturing revolution makes it possible.advanced robots can be programmed in order to perform any product configuration without any setup time or ramp up. 3d printers instantaneously produce any customized design. we are now able to produce a batch of one product, your product, at the same cost and lead time as a batch of many. those are only a few examples of the manufacturing revolution at play.not only will manufacturing become more productive, it will also become more flexible, and those were exactly the elements of growth that we are missing. but actually, there are even some bigger implications for all of us when manufacturing will find its way back into the limelight. it will create a huge macroeconomic shift.first, our factories will be relocated into our home markets. in the world of scale customization, consumer proximity is the new norm.then, our factories will be smaller, agile. scale does not matter anymore, flexibility does. they will be operating on a multi-product, made-to-order basis. the change will be drastic.globalization will enter a new era. the east-to-west trade flows will be replaced by regional trade flows. east for east, west for west. when you think about that, the old model was pretty much insane. piling up stocks, making products travel the whole world before they reach their end consumers. the new model, producing just next to the consumer market, will be much cleaner, much better for our environment. in mature economies, manufacturing will be back home, creating more employment, more productivity and more growth. good news, isn't it?but here's the thing with growth — it does not come automatically. mature economies will have to seize it. we'll have to massively re-train our workforce. in most countries, like in my country, france, we've told our children that manufacturing had no future. that it was something happening far away. we need to reverse that and teach manufacturing again at university. only the countries that will boldly transform will be able to seize this growth.it's also a chance for developing economies. of course china and other emerging economies won't be the factory of the world anymore. actually, it was not a sustainable model in the long term, as those countries are becoming richer. last year, it was already as expensive to produce in brazil as to produce in france. by 2018, manufacturing costs in china will be on par with the us.the new manufacturing revolution will accelerate the transition of those emerging economies towards a model driven by domestic consumption. and this is good, because this is where growth will be created. in the next five years, the next billion consumers in china will inject more growth in our economies than the top five european markets together.this fourth manufacturing revolution is a chance for all of us. if we play it right, we'll see sustainable growth in all of our economies. this means more wealth distributed to all of us and a better future for our children.thank you. <title = "What we can do to die well">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'aging', 'cancer', 'choice', 'communication', 'compassion', 'death', 'economics', 'health', 'health care', 'humanity', 'identity', 'medicine', 'pharmaceuticals', 'self']">
<occupation = "Palliative care physician">
i am a palliative care physician and i would like to talk to you today about health care. i'd like to talk to you about the health and care of the most vulnerable population in our country — those people dealing with the most complex serious health issues. i'd like to talk to you about economics as well. and the intersection of these two should scare the hell out of you — it scares the hell out of me.i'd also like to talk to you about palliative medicine: a paradigm of care for this population, grounded in what they value. patient-centric care based on their values that helps this population live better and longer. it's a care model that tells the truth and engages one-on-one and meets people where they're at.i'd like to start by telling the story of my very first patient. it was my first day as a physician, with the long white coat ... i stumbled into the hospital and right away there's a gentleman, harold, 68 years old, came to the emergency department. he had had headaches for about six weeks that got worse and worse and worse and worse. evaluation revealed he had cancer that had spread to his brain. the attending physician directed me to go share with harold and his family the diagnosis, the prognosis and options of care.five hours into my new career, i did the only thing i knew how. i walked in, sat down, took harold's hand, took his wife's hand and just breathed.he said, "it's not good news is it, sonny?"i said, "no."and so we talked and we listened and we shared. and after a while i said, "harold, what is it that has meaning to you? what is it that you hold sacred?"and he said, "my family."i said, "what do you want to do?"he slapped me on the knee and said, "i want to go fishing."i said, "that, i know how to do."harold went fishing the next day. he died a week later.as i've gone through my training in my career, i think back to harold. and i think that this is a conversation that happens far too infrequently. and it's a conversation that had led us to crisis, to the biggest threat to the american way of life today, which is health care expenditures.so what do we know? we know that this population, the most ill, takes up 15 percent of the gross domestic product — nearly 2.3 trillion dollars. so the sickest 15 percent take up 15 percent of the gdp. if we extrapolate this out over the next two decades with the growth of baby boomers, at this rate it is 60 percent of the gdp. sixty percent of the gross domestic product of the united states of america — it has very little to do with health care at that point. it has to do with a gallon of milk, with college tuition. it has to do with every thing that we value and every thing that we know presently. it has at stake the free-market economy and capitalism of the united states of america.let's forget all the statistics for a minute, forget the numbers. let's talk about the value we get for all these dollars we spend. well, the dartmouth atlas, about six years ago, looked at every dollar spent by medicare — generally this population. we found that those patients who have the highest per capita expenditures had the highest suffering, pain, depression. and, more often than not, they die sooner.how can this be? we live in the united states, it has the greatest health care system on the planet. we spend 10 times more on these patients than the second-leading country in the world. that doesn't make sense. but what we know is, out of the top 50 countries on the planet with organized health care systems, we rank 37th. former eastern bloc countries and sub-saharan african countries rank higher than us as far as quality and value.something i experience every day in my practice, and i'm sure, something many of you on your own journeys have experienced: more is not more. those individuals who had more tests, more bells, more whistles, more chemotherapy, more surgery, more whatever — the more that we do to someone, it decreases the quality of their life. and it shortens it, most often.so what are we going to do about this? what are we doing about this? and why is this so? the grim reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we, the health care industry — long white-coat physicians — are stealing from you. stealing from you the opportunity to choose how you want to live your lives in the context of whatever disease it is. we focus on disease and pathology and surgery and pharmacology. we miss the human being. how can we treat this without understanding this? we do things to this; we need to do things for this.the triple aim of healthcare: one, improve patient experience. two, improve the population health. three, decrease per capita expenditure across a continuum. our group, palliative care, in 2012, working with the sickest of the sick — cancer, heart disease, lung disease, renal disease, dementia — how did we improve patient experience?"i want to be at home, doc.""ok, we'll bring the care to you."quality of life, enhanced. think about the human being.two: population health. how did we look at this population differently, and engage with them at a different level, a deeper level, and connect to a broader sense of the human condition than my own? how do we manage this group, so that of our outpatient population, 94 percent, in 2012, never had to go to the hospital? not because they couldn't. but they didn't have to. we brought the care to them. we maintained their value, their quality.number three: per capita expenditures. for this population, that today is 2.3 trillion dollars and in 20 years is 60 percent of the gdp, we reduced health care expenditures by nearly 70 percent. they got more of what they wanted based on their values, lived better and are living longer, for two-thirds less money.while harold's time was limited, palliative care's is not. palliative care is a paradigm from diagnosis through the end of life. the hours, weeks, months, years, across a continuum — with treatment, without treatment.meet christine. stage iii cervical cancer, so, metastatic cancer that started in her cervix, spread throughout her body. she's in her 50s and she is living. this is not about end of life, this is about life. this is not just about the elderly, this is about people.this is richard. end-stage lung disease."richard, what is it that you hold sacred?""my kids, my wife and my harley." "alright! i can't drive you around on it because i can barely pedal a bicycle, but let's see what we can do."richard came to me, and he was in rough shape. he had this little voice telling him that maybe his time was weeks to months. and then we just talked. and i listened and tried to hear — big difference. use these in proportion to this.i said, "alright, let's take it one day at a time," like we do in every other chapter of our life. and we have met richard where richard's at day-to-day. and it's a phone call or two a week, but he's thriving in the context of end-stage lung disease.now, palliative medicine is not just for the elderly, it is not just for the middle-aged. it is for everyone.meet my friend jonathan. we have the honor and pleasure of jonathan and his father joining us here today. jonathan is in his 20s, and i met him several years ago. he was dealing with metastatic testicular cancer, spread to his brain. he had a stroke, he had brain surgery, radiation, chemotherapy. upon meeting him and his family, he was a couple of weeks away from a bone marrow transplant, and in listening and engaging, they said, "help us understand — what is cancer?"how did we get this far without understanding what we're dealing with? how did we get this far without empowering somebody to know what it is they're dealing with, and then taking the next step and engaging in who they are as human beings to know if that is what we should do? lord knows we can do any kind of thing to you. but should we?and don't take my word for it. all the evidence that is related to palliative care these days demonstrates with absolute certainty people live better and live longer. there was a seminal article out of the new england journal of medicine in 2010. a study done at harvard by friends of mine, colleagues. end-stage lung cancer: one group with palliative care, a similar group without. the group with palliative care reported less pain, less depression. they needed fewer hospitalizations. and, ladies and gentlemen, they lived three to six months longer. if palliative care were a cancer drug, every cancer doctor on the planet would write a prescription for it. why don't they? again, because we goofy, long white-coat physicians are trained and of the mantra of dealing with this, not with this.this is a space that we will all come to at some point. but this conversation today is not about dying, it is about living. living based on our values, what we find sacred and how we want to write the chapters of our lives, whether it's the last or the last five. what we know, what we have proven, is that this conversation needs to happen today — not next week, not next year. what is at stake is our lives today and the lives of us as we get older and the lives of our children and our grandchildren. not just in that hospital room or on the couch at home, but everywhere we go and everything we see. palliative medicine is the answer to engage with human beings, to change the journey that we will all face, and change it for the better.to my colleagues, to my patients, to my government, to all human beings, i ask that we stand and we shout and we demand the best care possible, so that we can live better today and ensure a better life tomorrow. we need to shift today so that we can live tomorrow.thank you very much. <title = "The deadly legacy of cluster bombs">
<tags = "['TED Fellows', 'death', 'humanity', 'life', 'military', 'photography', 'refugees', 'violence', 'war']">
<occupation = "Photographer">
i once had this nightmare: i'm standing in the middle of a deserted field full of land mines. in real life, i love to hike, but every time i want to go on a hike, it makes me nervous. i have this thought in the back of my mind that i might lose a limb.this underlying fear started 10 years ago, after i met mohammed, a cluster bomb survivor of the summer 2006 israel-hezbollah war in lebanon. mohammed, like so many other survivors all around the world, had to live through the horrifying repercussions of cluster munitions on a daily basis.when the one-month conflict started in lebanon, i was still working at agence france-presse in paris. i remember how i was glued to the screens, anxiously following the news. i wanted to reassure myself that the falling bombs missed my parents' home. when i arrived in beirut on assignment to cover that war, i was relieved to be united with my family, after they had finally managed to escape southern lebanon. the day the war was over, i remember seeing this image — one of blocked roads, of displaced people eagerly rushing south, back to their homes, regardless of what they would find.an estimated four million cluster submunitions were spread in lebanon during the 34-day conflict. mohammed lost both legs during the last week of the conflict. the fact that he lives a five-minute drive from my parents' home made it easier to follow him through the years. it was now almost 10 years since we first met. i saw the young boy who had to endure physical and emotional trauma. i saw the teenager who tried to offer his friends tattoos, in return for a set fee of five dollars. and i know the young, jobless man who spends hours surfing the internet trying to meet a girl who might become his girlfriend. his fate and the effects of losing his legs are now his daily reality.survivors of bomb trauma like mohammed have to deal with so many details that never occur to us. who would have imagined that so many daily tasks we do or take for granted, such as going to the beach or even picking up something from the floor, would become sources of stress and anxiety? well, that's what eventually became of mohammed, due to his inflexible prosthetic legs.ten years ago, i had no clue what a cluster bomb was, nor its horrifying implications. i learned that this indiscriminate weapon was used in so many parts of the world and continues to kill on a regular basis, without distinguishing between a military target or a child. i naively asked myself, "but seriously, who made those weapons? and what for?"let me explain to you what a cluster bomb is. it's a large canister filled with bomblets. when it's dropped from the air, it opens up in midair to release hundreds of bomblets. they scatter around wide areas and on impact, many fail to explode. those unexploded ones end up just like landmines — sitting on the ground, waiting for their next target. if someone steps on them by accident or picks them up, they can explode. these weapons are extremely unpredictable, which makes the threat even bigger. one day, a farmer can work his land without a problem. the next day, he can make fire and burn some branches, and the submunitions close by could be set off because of the heat. the problem is children mistake those bomblets for toys, because they can look like bouncy balls or soda cans.being a documentary photographer, i decided to go back to lebanon a few months after the conflict ended to meet cluster bomb survivors. and i met a few — hussein and rasha, who both lost a leg to submunitions. their stories are similar to so many other kids' stories across the world and are a testimony to the horrifying implications of the continuous use of such weapons.that's when i met mohammed, in january 2007. he was 11 years old, and i met him exactly four months after his accident. when i first saw him, he was going through painful physiotherapy to recover from his fresh wounds. still in shock at such a young age, mohammed was struggling to get used to his new body. he would even wake up sometimes at night wanting to scratch his lost feet. what drew me closer to his story was my instant realization of the difficulties mohammed was likely to face in the future — that what he has been suffering while adjusting to his injury at the age of 11, would increase manyfold.even before his disability, mohammed's life wasn't easy. he was born in the rashidieh camp for palestinian refugees, and this is where he still lives. lebanon holds some 400,000 palestinian refugees, and they suffer from discriminatory laws. they're not allowed to work in the public sector or practice certain professions and are denied the right to own property. this is one of the reasons why mohammed doesn't really regret dropping out of school right after his injury. he said, "what's the point of a university degree when i can't find a job to start with?"cluster bomb use creates a vicious circle of impact on communities, and not only the lives of their victims. many who get injured by this weapon drop out of school, can't find jobs or even lose their jobs, therefore losing the ability to provide for their families. this is not to mention the continuous physical pain and the experience of feeling isolated. these weapons affect the poorest of the poor. the high medical cost is a burden to the families. they end up relying on humanitarian agencies, which is insufficient and unsustainable, especially when injuries require lifelong support to the injured. ten years after mohammed's injury, he is still unable to afford proper prosthetic legs. he's very cautious with his steps, as a couple of falls over the years brought him embarrassment among his friends. he joked that since he doesn't have legs, some days he tries to walk on his hands.one of the worst yet invisible impacts of the weapon is the psychological scars it leaves. in one of mohammed's early medical reports, he was diagnosed with signs of ptsd. he suffered from anxiety, poor appetite, sleep disturbance and showed signs of anger. the reality is mohammed never received proper help to fully recover. his current obsession is to leave lebanon at any cost — even if it meant embarking on a hazardous journey along with refugees drifting towards europe today through the mediterranean. knowing how risky such a journey would be, he said, "if i were to die on the way, it doesn't matter." to mohammed, he is dead here, anyway.cluster bombs are a world problem, as this munition keeps destroying and hurting whole communities for generations to come. in an online interview with the director of the mines advisory group, jamie franklin, he said, "the us forces dropped over two million tons of munitions over laos. if they couldn't find their targets in vietnam, there were free-drop areas in laos where planes would drop their loads before going back to base, because it's dangerous to land with loaded planes." according to the international committee of the red cross, in laos alone — one of the poorest countries in the world — nine to 27 million unexploded submunitions remain. some 11,000 people have been killed or injured since 1973. this lethal weapon has been used by over 20 states during armed conflicts in over 35 countries, such as ukraine, iraq and sudan.so far, 119 states have joined an international treaty banning cluster bombs, which is officially called the convention on cluster munitions. but some of the biggest producers of cluster munitions — namely, the united states, russia and china — remain outside of this lifesaving treaty and continue to produce them, reserve the right to produce them in the future, keep those harmful weapons in their stockpiles and even possibly use them in the future.cluster bombs have reportedly been used most recently in the ongoing conflicts in yemen and syria. according to research on the worldwide investments in cluster munitions producers by pax, a dutch-based ngo, financial institutions invested billions of us dollars into companies that make cluster munitions. the majority of these institutions are based in countries that have not yet signed the convention on cluster munitions.getting back to mohammed, one of the few jobs he was able to find was picking lemons. when i ask him if it's safe to work in the field he said, "i'm not sure." research shows that cluster munitions often contaminate areas where agriculture is the main source of income. according to handicap international's research, 98 percent of those killed or injured by cluster munitions are civilians. eighty-four percent of casualties are males. in countries where these people have no choice but to work in those fields, they simply do it and risk it.mohammed is the only male to three sisters. culturally, he's expected to provide for his family, but he simply can't. he tried to have so many different jobs, but he couldn't keep any due to his physical disability and the less-than-friendly environment to people with disabilities, to say the least. it hurts him a lot when he goes out looking for a job, and he's turned away with a small amount of money paid to him out of pity. he said, "i'm not here to beg for money, i just want to earn it."mohammed today is 21 years old. he's illiterate, and he communicates with voice messages. here is one of his messages.(audio) mohammed: (speaking in arabic)laura boushnak: he said, "my dream is to run, and i'm pretty sure once i start running, i would never stop."thank you. <title = "How the blockchain is changing money and business">
<tags = "['Internet', 'blockchain', 'business', 'collaboration', 'computers', 'data', 'economics', 'future', 'innovation', 'privacy', 'security', 'society', 'software', 'technology', 'trust']">
<occupation = "Digital strategist">
the technology likely to have the greatest impact on the next few decades has arrived. and it's not social media. it's not big data. it's not robotics. it's not even ai. you'll be surprised to learn that it's the underlying technology of digital currencies like bitcoin. it's called the blockchain. blockchain.now, it's not the most sonorous word in the world, but i believe that this is now the next generation of the internet, and that it holds vast promise for every business, every society and for all of you, individually.you know, for the past few decades, we've had the internet of information. and when i send you an email or a powerpoint file or something, i'm actually not sending you the original, i'm sending you a copy. and that's great. this is democratized information. but when it comes to assets — things like money, financial assets like stocks and bonds, loyalty points, intellectual property, music, art, a vote, carbon credit and other assets — sending you a copy is a really bad idea. if i send you 100 dollars, it's really important that i don't still have the money — and that i can't send it to you. this has been called the "double-spend" problem by cryptographers for a long time.so today, we rely entirely on big intermediaries — middlemen like banks, government, big social media companies, credit card companies and so on — to establish trust in our economy. and these intermediaries perform all the business and transaction logic of every kind of commerce, from authentication, identification of people, through to clearing, settling and record keeping. and overall, they do a pretty good job. but there are growing problems.to begin, they're centralized. that means they can be hacked, and increasingly are — jp morgan, the us federal government, linkedin, home depot and others found that out the hard way. they exclude billions of people from the global economy, for example, people who don't have enough money to have a bank account. they slow things down. it can take a second for an email to go around the world, but it can take days or weeks for money to move through the banking system across a city. and they take a big piece of the action — 10 to 20 percent just to send money to another country. they capture our data, and that means we can't monetize it or use it to better manage our lives. our privacy is being undermined. and the biggest problem is that overall, they've appropriated the largesse of the digital age asymmetrically: we have wealth creation, but we have growing social inequality.so what if there were not only an internet of information, what if there were an internet of value — some kind of vast, global, distributed ledger running on millions of computers and available to everybody. and where every kind of asset, from money to music, could be stored, moved, transacted, exchanged and managed, all without powerful intermediaries? what if there were a native medium for value?well, in 2008, the financial industry crashed and, perhaps propitiously, an anonymous person or persons named satoshi nakamoto created a paper where he developed a protocol for a digital cash that used an underlying cryptocurrency called bitcoin. and this cryptocurrency enabled people to establish trust and do transactions without a third party. and this seemingly simple act set off a spark that ignited the world, that has everyone excited or terrified or otherwise interested in many places. now, don't be confused about bitcoin — bitcoin is an asset; it goes up and down, and that should be of interest to you if you're a speculator. more broadly, it's a cryptocurrency. it's not a fiat currency controlled by a nation-state. and that's of greater interest. but the real pony here is the underlying technology. it's called blockchain.so for the first time now in human history, people everywhere can trust each other and transact peer to peer. and trust is established, not by some big institution, but by collaboration, by cryptography and by some clever code. and because trust is native to the technology, i call this, "the trust protocol."now, you're probably wondering: how does this thing work? fair enough. assets — digital assets like money to music and everything in between — are not stored in a central place, but they're distributed across a global ledger, using the highest level of cryptography. and when a transaction is conducted, it's posted globally, across millions and millions of computers. and out there, around the world, is a group of people called "miners." these are not young people, they're bitcoin miners. they have massive computing power at their fingertips — 10 to 100 times bigger than all of google worldwide. these miners do a lot of work. and every 10 minutes, kind of like the heartbeat of a network, a block gets created that has all the transactions from the previous 10 minutes. then the miners get to work, trying to solve some tough problems.and they compete: the first miner to find out the truth and to validate the block, is rewarded in digital currency, in the case of the bitcoin blockchain, with bitcoin. and then — this is the key part — that block is linked to the previous block and the previous block to create a chain of blocks. and every one is time-stamped, kind of like with a digital waxed seal. so if i wanted to go and hack a block and, say, pay you and you with the same money, i'd have to hack that block, plus all the preceding blocks, the entire history of commerce on that blockchain, not just on one computer but across millions of computers, simultaneously, all using the highest levels of encryption, in the light of the most powerful computing resource in the world that's watching me. tough to do. this is infinitely more secure than the computer systems that we have today. blockchain. that's how it works.so the bitcoin blockchain is just one. there are many. the ethereum blockchain was developed by a canadian named vitalik buterin. he's [22] years old, and this blockchain has some extraordinary capabilities. one of them is that you can build smart contracts. it's kind of what it sounds like. it's a contract that self-executes, and the contract handles the enforcement, the management, performance and payment — the contract kind of has a bank account, too, in a sense — of agreements between people. and today, on the ethereum blockchain, there are projects underway to do everything from create a new replacement for the stock market to create a new model of democracy, where politicians are accountable to citizens. so to understand what a radical change this is going to bring, let's look at one industry, financial services. recognize this? rube goldberg machine. it's a ridiculously complicated machine that does something really simple, like crack an egg or shut a door. well, it kind of reminds me of the financial services industry, honestly. i mean, you tap your card in the corner store, and a bitstream goes through a dozen companies, each with their own computer system, some of them being 1970s mainframes older than many of the people in this room, and three days later, a settlement occurs. well, with a blockchain financial industry, there would be no settlement, because the payment and the settlement is the same activity, it's just a change in the ledger. so wall street and all around the world, the financial industry is in a big upheaval about this, wondering, can we be replaced, or how do we embrace this technology for success?now, why should you care? well, let me describe some applications. prosperity. the first era of the internet, the internet of information, brought us wealth but not shared prosperity, because social inequality is growing. and this is at the heart of all of the anger and extremism and protectionism and xenophobia and worse that we're seeing growing in the world today, brexit being the most recent case.so could we develop some new approaches to this problem of inequality? because the only approach today is to redistribute wealth, tax people and spread it around more. could we pre-distribute wealth? could we change the way that wealth gets created in the first place by democratizing wealth creation, engaging more people in the economy, and then ensuring that they got fair compensation? let me describe five ways that this can be done.number one: did you know that 70 percent of the people in the world who have land have a tenuous title to it? so, you've got a little farm in honduras, some dictator comes to power, he says, "i know you've got a piece of paper that says you own your farm, but the government computer says my friend owns your farm." this happened on a mass scale in honduras, and this problem exists everywhere. hernando de soto, the great latin american economist, says this is the number one issue in the world in terms of economic mobility, more important than having a bank account, because if you don't have a valid title to your land, you can't borrow against it, and you can't plan for the future.so today, companies are working with governments to put land titles on a blockchain. and once it's there, this is immutable. you can't hack it. this creates the conditions for prosperity for potentially billions of people.secondly: a lot of writers talk about uber and airbnb and taskrabbit and lyft and so on as part of the sharing economy. this is a very powerful idea, that peers can come together and create and share wealth. my view is that ... these companies are not really sharing. in fact, they're successful precisely because they don't share. they aggregate services together, and they sell them. what if, rather than airbnb being a $25 billion corporation, there was a distributed application on a blockchain, we'll call it b-airbnb, and it was essentially owned by all of the people who have a room to rent. and when someone wants to rent a room, they go onto the blockchain database and all the criteria, they sift through, it helps them find the right room, and then the blockchain helps with the contracting, it identifies the party, it handles the payments just through digital payments — they're built into the system. and it even handles reputation, because if she rates a room as a five-star room, that room is there, and it's rated, and it's immutable. so, the big sharing-economy disruptors in silicon valley could be disrupted, and this would be good for prosperity.number three: the biggest flow of funds from the developed world to the developing world is not corporate investment, and it's not even foreign aid. it's remittances. this is the global diaspora; people have left their ancestral lands, and they're sending money back to their families at home. this is 600 billion dollars a year, and it's growing, and these people are getting ripped off.analie domingo is a housekeeper. she lives in toronto, and every month she goes to the western union office with some cash to send her remittances to her mom in manila. it costs her around 10 percent; the money takes four to seven days to get there; her mom never knows when it's going to arrive. it takes five hours out of her week to do this.six months ago, analie domingo used a blockchain application called abra. and from her mobile device, she sent 300 bucks. it went directly to her mom's mobile device without going through an intermediary. and then her mom looked at her mobile device — it's kind of like an uber interface, there's abra "tellers" moving around. she clicks on a teller that's a five-star teller, who's seven minutes away. the guy shows up at the door, gives her filipino pesos, she puts them in her wallet. the whole thing took minutes, and it cost her two percent. this is a big opportunity for prosperity.number four: the most powerful asset of the digital age is data. and data is really a new asset class, maybe bigger than previous asset classes, like land under the agrarian economy, or an industrial plant, or even money. and all of you — we — create this data. we create this asset, and we leave this trail of digital crumbs behind us as we go throughout life. and these crumbs are collected into a mirror image of you, the virtual you. and the virtual you may know more about you than you do, because you can't remember what you bought a year ago, or said a year ago, or your exact location a year ago. and the virtual you is not owned by you — that's the big problem.so today, there are companies working to create an identity in a black box, the virtual you owned by you. and this black box moves around with you as you travel throughout the world, and it's very, very stingy. it only gives away the shred of information that's required to do something. a lot of transactions, the seller doesn't even need to know who you are. they just need to know that they got paid.and then this avatar is sweeping up all of this data and enabling you to monetize it. and this is a wonderful thing, because it can also help us protect our privacy, and privacy is the foundation of a free society. let's get this asset that we create back under our control, where we can own our own identity and manage it responsibly.finally — finally, number five: there are a whole number of creators of content who don't receive fair compensation, because the system for intellectual property is broken. it was broken by the first era of the internet. take music. musicians are left with crumbs at the end of the whole food chain. you know, if you were a songwriter, 25 years ago, you wrote a hit song, it got a million singles, you could get royalties of around 45,000 dollars. today, you're a songwriter, you write a hit song, it gets a million streams, you don't get 45k, you get 36 dollars, enough to buy a nice pizza.so imogen heap, the grammy-winning singer-songwriter, is now putting music on a blockchain ecosystem. she calls it "mycelia." and the music has a smart contract surrounding it. and the music protects her intellectual property rights. you want to listen to the song? it's free, or maybe a few micro-cents that flow into a digital account. you want to put the song in your movie, that's different, and the ip rights are all specified. you want to make a ringtone? that's different. she describes that the song becomes a business. it's out there on this platform marketing itself, protecting the rights of the author, and because the song has a payment system in the sense of bank account, all the money flows back to the artist, and they control the industry, rather than these powerful intermediaries. now, this is — this is not just songwriters, it's any creator of content, like art, like inventions, scientific discoveries, journalists. there are all kinds of people who don't get fair compensation, and with blockchains, they're going to be able to make it rain on the blockchain. and that's a wonderful thing.so, these are five opportunities out of a dozen to solve one problem, prosperity, which is one of countless problems that blockchains are applicable to.now, technology doesn't create prosperity, of course — people do. but my case to you is that, once again, the technology genie has escaped from the bottle, and it was summoned by an unknown person or persons at this uncertain time in human history, and it's giving us another kick at the can, another opportunity to rewrite the economic power grid and the old order of things, and solve some of the world's most difficult problems, if we will it.thank you. <title = "The spellbinding art of human anatomy">
<tags = "['Human body', 'TEDMED', 'art', 'beauty', 'creativity', 'health', 'history', 'humanity', 'medicine', 'painting', 'science', 'science and art', 'visualizations']">
<occupation = "Anatomical artist">
as a lover of human anatomy, i'm so excited that we're finally putting our bodies at the center of focus. through practices such as preventive medicine, patient empowerment and self-monitoring — down to now obsessing over every single step we take in a day. all of this works to promote a healthy connection between ourselves and our bodies.despite all this focus on the healthy self, general public knowledge of the anatomical self is lacking. many people don't know the location of their vital organs, or even how they function. and that's because human anatomy is a difficult and time-intensive subject to learn.how many of you here made it through anatomy? wow, good — most of you are in medicine. i, like you, spent countless hours memorizing hundreds of structures. something no student of anatomy could do without the help of visuals. because at the end of the day, whether you remember every little structure or not, these medical illustrations are what makes studying anatomy so intriguing. in looking at them, we're actually viewing a manual of our very selves.but what happens when we're done studying? these beautiful illustrations are then shut back into the pages of a medical textbook, or an app, referenced only when needed. and for the public, medical illustrations may only be encountered passively on the walls of a doctor's office.from the beginnings of modern medicine, medical illustration, and therefore anatomy, have existed primarily within the realm of medical education. yet there's something fascinating happening right now. artists are breaking anatomy out of the confines of the medical world and are thrusting it into the public space. for the past nine years, i have been cataloguing and sharing this rise in anatomical art with the public — all from my perspective as a medical illustrator.but before i get into showing you how artists are reclaiming anatomy today, it's important to understand how art influenced anatomy in the past.now, anatomy is by its very nature a visual science, and the first anatomists to understand this lived during the renaissance. they relied on artists to help advertise their discoveries to their peers in the public. and this drive to not only teach but also to entertain resulted in some of the strangest anatomical illustrations.anatomy was caught in a struggle between science, art and culture that lasted for over 500 years. artists rendered dissected cadavers as alive, posed in these humorous anatomical stripteases. imagine seeing that in your textbooks today. they also showed them as very much dead — unwillingly stripped of their skin. disembodied limbs were often posed in literal still lives. and some illustrations even included pop culture references. this is clara, a famous rhinoceros that was traveling europe in the mid-1700s, at a time when seeing a rhino was an exciting rarity. including her in this illustration was akin to celebrity sponsorship today.the introduction of color then brought a whole new depth and clarity to anatomy that made it stunning.by the early 20th century, the perfect balance of science and art had finally been struck with the emergence of medical illustrators. they created a universal representation of anatomy — something that was neither alive nor dead, that was free from those influences of artistic culture. and this focus on no-frills accuracy was precisely for the benefit of medical education. and this is what we get to study from today.but why is it that medical illustration — both past and present — captures our imaginations? now, we are innately tuned into the beauty of the human body. and medical illustration is still art. nothing can elicit an emotional response — from joy to complete disgust — more than the human body. and today, artists armed with that emotion, are grasping anatomy from the medical world, and are reinvigorating it through art in the most imaginative ways.a perfect example of this is spanish contemporary artist fernando vicente. he takes 19th century anatomical illustrations of the male body and envelops them in a female sensuality. the women in his paintings taunt us to view beyond their surface anatomy, thereby introducing a strong femininity that was previously lacking in the history of anatomical representation.artistry can also be seen in the repair and recovery of the human body. this is an x-ray of a woman who fractured and dislocated her ankle in a roller-skating accident. as a tribute to her trauma, she commissioned montreal-based architect federico carbajal to construct a wire sculpture of her damaged lower leg. now, notice those bright red screws magnified in the sculpture. these are the actual surgical screws used in reconstructing her ankle. it's medical hardware that's been repurposed as art.people often ask me how i choose the art that i showcase online or feature in gallery shows. and for me it's a balance between the technique and a concept that pushes the boundaries of anatomy as a way to know thyself, which is why the work of michael reedy struck me. his serious figure drawings are often layered in elements of humor. for instance, take a look at her face. notice those red marks. michael manifests the consuming insecurity of a skin condition as these maniacal cartoon monsters annoying and out of control in the background. on the mirrored figure, he renders the full anatomy and covers it in glitter, making it look like candy. by doing this, michael downplays the common perception of anatomy so closely tied to just disease and death.now, this next concept might not make much sense, but human anatomy is no longer limited to humans. when you were a child, did you ever wish that your toys could come to life? well, jason freeny makes those dreams come true with his magical toy dissections. one might think that this would bring a morbid edge to one's innocent childhood characters, but jason says of his dissections, "one thing i've never seen in a child's reaction to my work is fear." it's always wonder, amazement and wanting to explore. fear of anatomy and guts is a learned reaction.this anatomization also extends to politically and socially charged objects. in noah scalin's "anatomy of war," we see a gun dissected to reveal human organs. but if you look closely, you'll notice that it lacks a brain. and if you keep looking, you might also notice that noah has so thoughtfully placed the rectum at the business end of that gun barrel.now, this next artist i've been following for many years, watching him excite the public about anatomy. danny quirk is a young artist who paints his subjects in the process of self-dissection. he bends the rules of medical illustration by inserting a very dramatic light and shadow. and this creates a 3-d illusion that lends itself very well to painting directly on the human skin. danny makes it look as if a person's skin has actually been removed. and this effect — also cool and tattoo-like — easily transitions into a medical illustration. now danny is currently traveling the world, teaching anatomy to the public via his body paintings, which is why it was so shocking to find out that he was rejected from medical illustration programs. but he's doing just fine.then there are artists who are extracting anatomy from both the medical world and the art world and are placing it directly on the streets. london-based shok-1 paints giant x-rays of pop culture icons. his x-rays show how culture can come to have an anatomy of its own, and conversely how culture can become part of the anatomy of a person. you come to admire his work because reproducing x-rays by hand, let alone with spray paint, is extremely difficult. but then again this is a street artist, who also happens to hold a degree in applied chemistry.nychos, an austrian street artist, takes the term "exploded view" to a whole new level, splattering human and animal dissections on walls all over the world. influenced by comics and heavy metal, nychos inserts a very youthful and enticing energy into anatomy that i just love.street artists believe that art belongs to the public. and this street anatomy is so captivating because it is the furthest removed from the medical world. it forces you to look at it, and confront your own perceptions about anatomy, whether you find it beautiful, gross, morbid or awe-inspiring, like i do. that it elicits these responses at all is due to our intimate and often changing relationship with it.all of the artists that i showed you here today referenced medical illustrations for their art. but for them, anatomy isn't just something to memorize, but a base from which to understand the human body on a meaningful level; to depict it in ways that we can relate, whether it be through cartoons, body painting or street art.anatomical art has the power to reach far beyond the pages of a medical textbook, to ignite an excitement in the public, and reinvigorate an enthusiasm in the medical world, ultimately connecting our innermost selves with our bodies through art.thank you. <title = "How women wage conflict without violence">
<tags = "['global issues', 'history', 'nonviolence', 'peace', 'protests', 'social change', 'war', 'women']">
<occupation = "Filmmaker">
twelve years ago, i picked up a camera for the first time to film the olive harvest in a palestinian village in the west bank. i thought i was there to make a single documentary and would then move on to some other part of the world. but something kept bringing me back.now, usually, when international audiences hear about that part of the world, they often just want that conflict to go away. the israeli-palestinian conflict is bad, and we wish it could just disappear. we feel much the same way about other conflicts around the world. but every time we turn our attention to the news, it seems like one more country has gone up in flames. so i've been wondering whether we should not start looking at conflict in a different way — whether instead of simply wishing to end conflict, we focus instead on how to wage conflict. this has been a big question for me, one i've pursued together with my team at the nonprofit just vision. after witnessing several different kinds of struggles in the middle east, i started noticing some patterns on the more successful ones. i wondered whether these variables held across cases, and if they did, what lessons we could glean for waging constructive conflict, in palestine, israel and elsewhere.there is some science about this. in a study of 323 major political conflicts from 1900 to 2006, maria stephan and erica chenoweth found that nonviolent campaigns were almost 100 percent more likely to lead to success than violent campaigns. nonviolent campaigns are also less likely to cause physical harm to those waging the campaign, as well as their opponents. and, critically, they typically lead to more peaceful and democratic societies. in other words, nonviolent resistance is a more effective and constructive way of waging conflict.but if that's such an easy choice, why don't more groups use it? political scientist victor asal and colleagues have looked at several factors that shape a political group's choice of tactics. and it turns out that the greatest predictor of a movement's decision to adopt nonviolence or violence is not whether that group is more left-wing or right-wing, not whether the group is more or less influenced by religious beliefs, not whether it's up against a democracy or a dictatorship, and not even the levels of repression that that group is facing. the greatest predictor of a movement's decision to adopt nonviolence is its ideology regarding the role of women in public life. when a movement includes in its discourse language around gender equality, it increases dramatically the chances it will adopt nonviolence, and thus, the likelihood it will succeed.the research squared up with my own documentation of political organizing in israel and palestine. i've noticed that movements which welcome women into leadership positions, such as the one i documented in a village called budrus, were much more likely to achieve their goals. this village was under a real threat of being wiped off the map when israel started building the separation barrier. the proposed route would require the destruction of this community's olive groves, their cemeteries and would ultimately enclose the village from all sides. through inspired local leadership, they launched a nonviolent resistance campaign to stop that from happening. the odds were massively stacked against them. but they had a secret weapon: a 15-year-old girl who courageously jumped in front of a bulldozer which was about to uproot an olive tree, stopping it. in that moment, the community of budrus realized what was possible if they welcomed and encouraged women to participate in public life. and so it was that the women of budrus went to the front lines day after day, using their creativity and acumen to overcome multiple obstacles they faced in a 10-month unarmed struggle. and as you can probably tell at this point, they win at the end.the separation barrier was changed completely to the internationally recognized green line, and the women of budrus came to be known across the west bank for their indomitable energy. thank you.i want to pause for a second, which you helped me do, because i do want to tackle two very serious misunderstandings that could happen at this point. the first one is that i don't believe women are inherently or essentially more peaceful than men. but i do believe that in today's world, women experience power differently. having had to navigate being in the less powerful position in multiple aspects of their lives, women are often more adept at how to surreptitiously pressure for change against large, powerful actors. the term "manipulative," often charged against women in a derogatory way, reflects a reality in which women have often had to find ways other than direct confrontation to achieve their goals. and finding alternatives to direct confrontation is at the core of nonviolent resistance.now to the second potential misunderstanding. i've been talking a lot about my experiences in the middle east, and some of you might be thinking now that the solution then is for us to educate muslim and arab societies to be more inclusive of their women. if we were to do that, they would be more successful. they do not need this kind of help. women have been part of the most influential movements coming out of the middle east, but they tend to be invisible to the international community. our cameras are largely focused on the men who often end up involved in the more confrontational scenes that we find so irresistible in our news cycle. and we end up with a narrative that not only erases women from the struggles in the region but often misrepresents the struggles themselves.in the late 1980s, an uprising started in gaza, and quickly spread to the west bank and east jerusalem. it came to be known as the first intifada, and people who have any visual memory of it generally conjure up something like this: palestinian men throwing rocks at israeli tanks. the news coverage at the time made it seem like stones, molotov cocktails and burning tires were the only activities taking place in the intifada. this period, though, was also marked by widespread nonviolent organizing in the forms of strikes, sit-ins and the creation of parallel institutions.during the first intifada, whole sectors of the palestinian civilian population mobilized, cutting across generations, factions and class lines. they did this through networks of popular committees, and their use of direct action and communal self-help projects challenged israel's very ability to continue ruling the west bank and gaza. according to the israeli army itself, 97 percent of activities during the first intifada were unarmed.and here's another thing that is not part of our narrative about that time. for 18 months in the intifada, women were the ones calling the shots behind the scenes: palestinian women from all walks of life in charge of mobilizing hundreds of thousands of people in a concerted effort to withdraw consent from the occupation. naela ayesh, who strived to build a self-sufficient palestinian economy by encouraging women in gaza to grow vegetables in their backyards, an activity deemed illegal by the israeli authorities at that time; rabeha diab, who took over decision-making authority for the entire uprising when the men who had been running it were deported; fatima al jaafari, who swallowed leaflets containing the uprising's directives in order to spread them across the territories without getting caught; and zahira kamal, who ensured the longevity of the uprising by leading an organization that went from 25 women to 3,000 in a single year. despite their extraordinary achievements, none of these women have made it into our narrative of the first intifada.we do this in other parts of the globe, too. in our history books, for instance, and in our collective consciousness, men are the public faces and spokespersons for the 1960s struggle for racial justice in the united states. but women were also a critical driving force, mobilizing, organizing, taking to the streets. how many of us think of septima clark when we think of the united states civil rights era? remarkably few. but she played a crucial role in every phase of the struggle, particularly by emphasizing literacy and education. she's been omitted, ignored, like so many other women who played critical roles in the united states civil rights movement.this is not about getting credit. it's more profound than that. the stories we tell matter deeply to how we see ourselves, and to how we believe movements are run and how movements are won. the stories we tell about a movement like the first intifada or the united states civil rights era matter deeply and have a critical influence in the choices palestinians, americans and people around the world will make next time they encounter an injustice and develop the courage to confront it. if we do not lift up the women who played critical roles in these struggles, we fail to offer up role models to future generations. without role models, it becomes harder for women to take up their rightful space in public life. and as we saw earlier, one of the most critical variables in determining whether a movement will be successful or not is a movement's ideology regarding the role of women in public life.this is a question of whether we're moving towards more democratic and peaceful societies. in a world where so much change is happening, and where change is bound to continue at an increasingly faster pace, it is not a question of whether we will face conflict, but rather a question of which stories will shape how we choose to wage conflict.thank you. <title = "Bring on the female superheroes!">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'art', 'children', 'communication', 'entertainment', 'film', 'identity', 'inequality', 'marketing', 'media', 'movies', 'parenting', 'society', 'toy', 'women']">
<occupation = "Media studies scholar">
i spend most of my time thinking about little girls, which is kind of a weird thing for a grown man in our society to say. but i do. i spend most of my time thinking about little girls, and i think it's primarily because i have one. this one's mine, and i think you would really like her. she is smart and funny and kind to people and a good friend. but when i talk about my daughter, the word i find myself saying most is "athlete." my kid's athletic. she is strong and fast and has great balance and good body control. she is a three-time, back-to-back-to-back state champion in shaolin kempo. at nine years old, she is already halfway to a black belt. my daughter is athletic.now, when a man who is six feet two and 265 pounds stands in front of you and says his daughter is athletic, you might think that's a reflection of him. it is not. my wife in high school was a two-time all-state soccer player and a two-time all-state volleyball player, and i played "dungeons and dragons." and that is why, although my daughter is an athlete, she's also a huge nerd, which i love. she walks around our house in a cloak of flames that she made herself. she sits on the iron throne — even though she has never seen "game of thrones," primarily because we are not the worst parents who ever lived. but she knows there's someone called the mother of dragons, and she calls herself that and she loves it. she's a huge comic book fan. right now, her favorite character is groot. she loves groot. she adores the incredible hulk. but my daughter really at heart, her thing is star wars. my kid is a jedi. although some days she's also a sith, which is a choice that i can respect. but here's the question that i have to ask. why is it that when my daughter dresses up, whether it's groot or the incredible hulk, whether it's obi-wan kenobi or darth maul, why is every character she dresses up as a boy? and where are all the female superheroes? and that is not actually the question, because there's plenty of female superheroes. my question really is, where is all the female superhero stuff? where are the costumes? where are the toys?because every day when my daughter plays when she dresses up, she's learning stuff through a process that, in my own line of work, as a professor of media studies, we refer to as public pedagogy. that is, it is how societies are taught ideologies. it's how you learned what it meant to be a man or a woman, what it meant to behave yourself in public, what it meant to be a patriot and have good manners. it's all the constituent social relations that make us up as a people. it's, in short, how we learn what we know about other people and about the world. but we live in a 100-percent media-saturated society. what that means is that every single aspect of your human existence outside of your basic bodily functions is in some way touched by media. from the car that you drive to the food that you eat to the clothes that you wear to the way you construct your relationships to the very language you use to formulate thought — all of that is in some way mediated. so the answer in our society to how do we learn what we know about other people and about the world is largely through media.well, there's a wrinkle in that, in that our society, media don't simply exist as information distribution technologies and devices. they also exist as corporate entities. and when the distribution of information is tied to financial gain, there's a problem. how big of a problem? well think about this: in 1983, 90 percent of american media were owned by 50 companies. in any market, 50 companies doing something is a lot of companies. it's a lot of different worldviews. in 2015, that number has shrunk to six, six companies. they are nbcuniversal comcast, aol time warner, the walt disney company, news corp, viacom and the cbs corporation. these six companies produce nine out of every 10 movies you watch, nine out of every 10 television shows, nine out of every 10 songs, nine out of every 10 books. so my question to you is, if six companies control 90 percent of american media, how much influence do you think they have over what you're allowed to see every day?because in media studies, we spend a lot of time saying that media can't tell us what to think, and they can't; they're terrible at that. but that's not their job. media don't tell us what to think. media tell us what to think about. they control the conversation, and in controlling the conversation, they don't have to get you to think what they want you to think. they'll just get you thinking about the things they want you to think about, and more importantly, not thinking about things they don't want you to think about. they control the conversation.how does this work in practice? let's just take one of those companies. we'll do an easy one. let's talk about the walt disney company for a second. the reason why i always pick the walt disney company is this. is there a single person in this room who has never seen a disney movie? look around. exactly. i picked disney because they have what we call 100 percent penetration in our society. every single person has been exposed to disney, so it's an easy one for me to use. since 1937, disney has made most of its money selling princesses to girls. it's made a huge chunk of its money. unless, of course, the princess your daughter is interested in, as my daughter is, is this one.see, in 2012, disney purchased lucasfilm for the sum of four billion dollars, and immediately they flooded the disney stores with han solo and obi-wan kenobi, with darth vader and luke skywalker and yoda and not princess leia. why? because this princess messes up the public pedagogy for these princesses. so disney did not put princess leia merchandise in the store, and when people went to disney and said, "hey, where's all the princess leia stuff?" disney said, "we have no intention of putting princess leia merchandise in the store." and fans were angry and they took to twitter with the hashtag #wewantleia. and disney said, "wait, that's not what we meant. what we meant was, we don't have any princess leia merchandise yet, but we will." and that was in 2012, and it is 2015, and if you go to the disney store, as i recently have, and look for princess leia merchandise, do you know how many princess leia items there are in the disney store? zero, because disney has no intention of putting princess leia in the store.and we shouldn't be surprised because we found out that was their policy when they bought marvel in 2009 for the sum of 4.5 billion dollars. because when you make a lot of money selling princesses to girls, you also kind of want to make money from boys. and so what better to sell boys than superheroes? so now disney had access to captain america and to thor, the incredible hulk, and they had access even to a group of superheroes no one had ever even heard of. that's how good marvel was at selling superheroes.last year, they released a film called "guardians of the galaxy." it's a film that absolutely should not work. nobody knew who they were except for comic book nerds like me. one of the characters is a talking tree. one of the characters is an anthropomorphic raccoon. it should not work. and they made a killing off of "guardians of the galaxy."this character here in the middle, her name is gamora. she's played by zoe saldana, and she is strong and smart and fast and fights like a ninja, and she is played by a beautiful black woman, and my daughter fell in love with her. so like any good nerd dad, i went to buy my daughter gamora stuff, and when i got to the store, i learned a very interesting thing. if i wanted to buy her a gamora backpack, well, gamora's not on it. they probably should have marketed this as "some" of the guardians of the galaxy. and if i wanted to buy her a lunchbox, she wasn't on it, and if i wanted to buy her a t-shirt, she wasn't on it. and as a matter of fact, if i went to the store, as i did, and looked at the display, you would find a small picture of gamora right here, but if you look at any of the actual merchandise on that shelf, gamora is not on any of it.now, i could have taken to twitter with the hashtag #wheresgamora, like millions of fans did across the world, but the truth was i wasn't even really that surprised, because i was there when disney had released "the avengers." and just this year, we got a new avengers movie, the "age of ultron," and we were very excited, because there was not one but two female superheroes, scarlet witch and black widow. and we were very excited. but here's the real thing about this. even though scarlett johansson, who is one of the most popular actresses in america, plays black widow, and black widow is the star of not one, not two, but five different marvel movies, there is not a single piece of black widow merchandise available. not one. and if you go to the disney store and look for a black widow costume, what you will find, is you will find captain america and the incredible hulk. you will find iron man and thor. you will even find war machine, who isn't even really in the movie that long. who you will not find is black widow. and i could have gone to twitter with the hashtag, as many people did, # wheresnatasha. but i'm tired of doing that. i'm tired of having to do that.all over the country right now, there are kids playing with the cycle blast quinjet play set, where captain america rides a motorcycle out of a moving jet and it's really awesome. you know how awesome it is? so awesome that when it happened in the movie, it was black widow that did it. not only has she been erased, but she has been replaced with a male figure.and so what is this teaching us? i mean, over the next five years, disney and warner bros. and a bunch of movie studios are going to release over 30 feature-length films with comic book characters, and of those 30 feature-length films, exactly two of them will have female solo leads. two. now, there will be females in the rest of these movies, but they will be sidekicks, they will be love interests, they will be members of teams. they will not be the main character. and if what we learn, what we know about other people and about the world we learn through media, then these companies are teaching my daughter that even if she is strong and smart and fast and fights like a ninja, all four of which are true of her, it doesn't matter. she will either be ignored like gamora or erased and replaced with a boy like black widow. and it's not fair. it's not fair to her and it's not fair to your sons and daughters either.but here's the thing: i'm raising a little girl, and she has a little tomboy in her, which by the way is a terrible thing to call a girl. what that basically is saying is, those traits that define you, they're not really yours, they're just on loan to you for a little while from boys. but do you know how much grief she's going to take in her life for having a little tomboy in her? zero. none. people will think it's cute. they'll call her feisty, because in our society, adding so-called male traits to girls is seen as an upgrade, seen as a bonus. i'm not raising a little boy, like mike.mike is a little boy in florida. he's 11 years old, and the thing that he loves most in the world is a show called "my little pony: friendship is magic," like millions of other children across america. now, the show is marketed to girls ages five to nine, but there are millions of boys and grown men who enjoy "my little pony: friendship is magic." they have a club. they call themselves bronies, pony bros, guys who like ponies. i happen to be one of them. and what are mike and myself and millions of other boys and men learning in this feminine, sissified world of "my little pony?" well, they're learning to study hard and to work hard and to party hard and to look good and to feel good and to do good, and heaven preserve us from teaching these wussified concepts to boys.so the other kids in his neighborhood pick on mike and they beat him up and they make fun of him, and at 11 years old, mike goes home, finds a belt, wraps it around his neck, and hangs himself from the top bunk of his bed. because we have developed a society in which you would rather be dead as a boy than thought of as liking stuff for girls. and that is not mike's fault. that is our fault. we have failed him. we have failed our children. and we have to do better for them. we have to stop making it so that the only female superheroes appear on shirts that are pink and cut for girls. we have to stop.and when i was putting this together, people said to me, "well, that's never going to happen." and i said, "oh really?" because just this year, target announced that they were going to stop gendering their toy aisles. they were going to mix it up. now, before we break our shoulders patting target on the back, just this week they released a shirt in which one of the most iconic scenes in "star wars: a new hope" where princess leia stands up to the dark lord of the sith, was released on a t-shirt in which she's mysteriously replaced by luke. so let's don't pat ourselves on the back too much. just this week also, disney announced it was no longer going to gender its halloween costumes, which i say, "thank you, disney, except the only costumes you make are of male superheroes, so does it matter who you have wearing them?" just this week, mattel, who makes barbie, announced they're going to release a line of dc superhero girls. and the funny thing is, they met with girls and asked them what they wanted to see in dolls, and you can see, they have calves and elbows that bend so they can do superhero stuff. and please buy them. and don't just buy them for your daughters, buy them for your sons. because it's important that boys play with and as female superheroes just as my daughter plays with and as male superheroes.as a matter of fact, what i would love is a world in which every person who goes to the store goes with a little flowchart in their head of whether or not they should buy this toy for a boy or a girl, and it's a real simple flowchart because it only has one question on it. it says, "is this toy operated with your genitals?" if the answer is yes, then that is not a toy for children. and if the answer is no, then it's for boys and girls. it's really simple. because today is about the future of the future, and in my future, boys and girls are equally respected, equally valued, and most importantly, equally represented.thank you. <title = "Why you should talk to strangers">
<tags = "['TED Books', 'anthropology', 'communication', 'community', 'friendship', 'humanity', 'personality', 'society']">
<occupation = "Stranger enthusiast">
there are things we say when we catch the eye of a stranger or a neighbor walking by. we say, "hello, how are you? it's a beautiful day. how do you feel?" these sound kind of meaningless, right? and, in some ways, they are. they have no semantic meaning. it doesn't matter how you are or what the day is like. they have something else. they have social meaning. what we mean when we say those things is: i see you there.i'm obsessed with talking to strangers. i make eye contact, say hello, i offer help, i listen. i get all kinds of stories. about seven years ago, i started documenting my experiences to try to figure out why. what i found was that something really beautiful was going on. this is almost poetic. these were really profound experiences. they were unexpected pleasures. they were genuine emotional connections. they were liberating moments.so one day, i was standing on a corner waiting for the light to change, which, i'm a new yorker, so that means i was actually standing in the street on the storm drain, as if that could get me across faster. and there's an old man standing next to me. so he's wearing, like, a long overcoat and sort of an old-man hat, and he looked like somebody from a movie. and he says to me, "don't stand there. you might disappear." so this is absurd, right? but i did what he said. i stepped back onto the sidewalk. and he smiled, and he said, "good. you never know. i might have turned around, and zoop, you're gone."this was weird, and also really wonderful. he was so warm, and he was so happy that he'd saved me. we had this little bond. for a minute, i felt like my existence as a person had been noticed, and i was worth saving. the really sad thing is, in many parts of the world, we're raised to believe that strangers are dangerous by default, that we can't trust them, that they might hurt us. but most strangers aren't dangerous. we're uneasy around them because we have no context. we don't know what their intentions are. so instead of using our perceptions and making choices, we rely on this category of "stranger."i have a four-year-old. when i say hello to people on the street, she asks me why. she says, "do we know them?"i say, "no, they're our neighbor.""are they our friend?""no, it's just good to be friendly."i think twice every time i say that to her, because i mean it, but as a woman, particularly, i know that not every stranger on the street has the best intentions. it is good to be friendly, and it's good to learn when not to be, but none of that means we have to be afraid.there are two huge benefits to using our senses instead of our fears. the first one is that it liberates us. when you think about it, using perception instead of categories is much easier said than done. categories are something our brains use. when it comes to people, it's sort of a shortcut for learning about them. we see male, female, young, old, black, brown, white, stranger, friend, and we use the information in that box. it's quick, it's easy and it's a road to bias. and it means we're not thinking about people as individuals. i know an american researcher who travels frequently in central asia and africa, alone. she's entering into towns and cities as a complete stranger. she has no bonds, no connections. she's a foreigner. her survival strategy is this: get one stranger to see you as a real, individual person. if you can do that, it'll help other people see you that way, too.the second benefit of using our senses has to do with intimacy. i know it sounds a little counterintuitive, intimacy and strangers, but these quick interactions can lead to a feeling that sociologists call "fleeting intimacy." so, it's a brief experience that has emotional resonance and meaning. it's the good feeling i got from being saved from the death trap of the storm drain by the old man, or how i feel like part of a community when i talk to somebody on my train on the way to work.sometimes it goes further. researchers have found that people often feel more comfortable being honest and open about their inner selves with strangers than they do with their friends and their families — that they often feel more understood by strangers. this gets reported in the media with great lament. "strangers communicate better than spouses!" it's a good headline, right? i think it entirely misses the point. the important thing about these studies is just how significant these interactions can be; how this special form of closeness gives us something we need as much as we need our friends and our families.so how is it possible that we communicate so well with strangers? there are two reasons. the first one is that it's a quick interaction. it has no consequences. it's easy to be honest with someone you're never going to see again, right? that makes sense. the second reason is where it gets more interesting. we have a bias when it comes to people we're close to. we expect them to understand us. we assume they do, and we expect them to read our minds. so imagine you're at a party, and you can't believe that your friend or your spouse isn't picking up on it that you want to leave early. and you're thinking, "i gave you the look."with a stranger, we have to start from scratch. we tell the whole story, we explain who the people are, how we feel about them; we spell out all the inside jokes. and guess what? sometimes they do understand us a little better.ok. so now that we know that talking to strangers matters, how does it work? there are unwritten rules we tend to follow. the rules are very different depending on what country you're in, what culture you're in. in most parts of the us, the baseline expectation in public is that we maintain a balance between civility and privacy. this is known as civil inattention. so, imagine two people are walking towards each other on the street. they'll glance at each other from a distance. that's the civility, the acknowledgment. and then as they get closer, they'll look away, to give each other some space.in other cultures, people go to extraordinary lengths not to interact at all. people from denmark tell me that many danes are so averse to talking to strangers, that they would rather miss their stop on the bus than say "excuse me" to someone that they need to get around. instead, there's this elaborate shuffling of bags and using your body to say that you need to get past, instead of using two words.in egypt, i'm told, it's rude to ignore a stranger, and there's a remarkable culture of hospitality. strangers might ask each other for a sip of water. or, if you ask someone for directions, they're very likely to invite you home for coffee. we see these unwritten rules most clearly when they're broken, or when you're in a new place and you're trying to figure out what the right thing to do is.sometimes breaking the rules a little bit is where the action is. in case it's not clear, i really want you to do this. ok? so here's how it's going to go. find somebody who is making eye contact. that's a good signal. the first thing is a simple smile. if you're passing somebody on the street or in the hallway here, smile. see what happens.another is triangulation. there's you, there's a stranger, there's some third thing that you both might see and comment on, like a piece of public art or somebody preaching in the street or somebody wearing funny clothes. give it a try. make a comment about that third thing, and see if starts a conversation.another is what i call noticing. this is usually giving a compliment. i'm a big fan of noticing people's shoes. i'm actually not wearing fabulous shoes right now, but shoes are fabulous in general. and they're pretty neutral as far as giving compliments goes. people always want to tell you things about their awesome shoes.you may have already experienced the dogs and babies principle. it can be awkward to talk to someone on the street; you don't know how they're going to respond. but you can always talk to their dog or their baby. the dog or the baby is a social conduit to the person, and you can tell by how they respond whether they're open to talking more.the last one i want to challenge you to is disclosure. this is a very vulnerable thing to do, and it can be very rewarding. so next time you're talking to a stranger and you feel comfortable, tell them something true about yourself, something really personal. you might have that experience i talked about of feeling understood.sometimes in conversation, it comes up, people ask me, "what does your dad do?" or, "where does he live?" and sometimes i tell them the whole truth, which is that he died when i was a kid. always in those moments, they share their own experiences of loss. we tend to meet disclosure with disclosure, even with strangers.so, here it is. when you talk to strangers, you're making beautiful interruptions into the expected narrative of your daily life and theirs. you're making unexpected connections. if you don't talk to strangers, you're missing out on all of that. we spend a lot of time teaching our children about strangers. what would happen if we spent more time teaching ourselves? we could reject all the ideas that make us so suspicious of each other. we could make a space for change.thank you. <title = "The risky politics of progress">
<tags = "['big problems', 'collaboration', 'global issues', 'government', 'journalism', 'law', 'policy', 'politics', 'security', 'society', 'terrorism', 'war']">
<occupation = "Global affairs thinker">
the conventional wisdom about our world today is that this is a time of terrible decline. and that's not surprising, given the bad news all around us, from isis to inequality, political dysfunction, climate change, brexit, and on and on. but here's the thing, and this may sound a little weird. i actually don't buy this gloomy narrative, and i don't think you should either. look, it's not that i don't see the problems. i read the same headlines that you do. what i dispute is the conclusion that so many people draw from them, namely that we're all screwed because the problems are unsolvable and our governments are useless.now, why do i say this? it's not like i'm particularly optimistic by nature. but something about the media's constant doom-mongering with its fixation on problems and not on answers has always really bugged me.so a few years ago i decided, well, i'm a journalist, i should see if i can do any better by going around the world and actually asking folks if and how they've tackled their big economic and political challenges. and what i found astonished me. it turns out that there are remarkable signs of progress out there, often in the most unexpected places, and they've convinced me that our great global challenges may not be so unsolvable after all. not only are there theoretical fixes; those fixes have been tried. they've worked. and they offer hope for the rest of us.i'm going to show you what i mean by telling you about how three of the countries i visited — canada, indonesia and mexico — overcame three supposedly impossible problems. their stories matter because they contain tools the rest of us can use, and not just for those particular problems, but for many others, too.when most people think about my homeland, canada, today, if they think about canada at all, they think cold, they think boring, they think polite. they think we say "sorry" too much in our funny accents. and that's all true. sorry. but canada's also important because of its triumph over a problem currently tearing many other countries apart: immigration. consider, canada today is among the world's most welcoming nations, even compared to other immigration-friendly countries. its per capita immigration rate is four times higher than france's, and its percentage of foreign-born residents is double that of sweden. meanwhile, canada admitted 10 times more syrian refugees in the last year than did the united states. and now canada is taking even more. and yet, if you ask canadians what makes them proudest of their country, they rank "multiculturalism," a dirty word in most places, second, ahead of hockey. hockey. in other words, at a time when other countries are now frantically building new barriers to keep foreigners out, canadians want even more of them in.now, here's the really interesting part. canada wasn't always like this. until the mid-1960s, canada followed an explicitly racist immigration policy. they called it "white canada," and as you can see, they were not just talking about the snow.so how did that canada become today's canada? well, despite what my mom in ontario will tell you, the answer had nothing to do with virtue. canadians are not inherently better than anyone else. the real explanation involves the man who became canada's leader in 1968, pierre trudeau, who is also the father of the current prime minister. the thing to know about that first trudeau is that he was very different from canada's previous leaders. he was a french speaker in a country long-dominated by its english elite. he was an intellectual. he was even kind of groovy. i mean, seriously, the guy did yoga. he hung out with the beatles. and like all hipsters, he could be infuriating at times. but he nevertheless pulled off one of the most progressive transformations any country has ever seen. his formula, i've learned, involved two parts. first, canada threw out its old race-based immigration rules, and it replaced them with new color-blind ones that emphasized education, experience and language skills instead. and what that did was greatly increase the odds that newcomers would contribute to the economy. then part two, trudeau created the world's first policy of official multiculturalism to promote integration and the idea that diversity was the key to canada's identity.now, in the years that followed, ottawa kept pushing this message, but at the same time, ordinary canadians soon started to see the economic, the material benefits of multiculturalism all around them. and these two influences soon combined to create the passionately open-minded canada of today.let's now turn to another country and an even tougher problem, islamic extremism. in 1998, the people of indonesia took to the streets and overthrew their longtime dictator, suharto. it was an amazing moment, but it was also a scary one. with 250 million people, indonesia is the largest muslim-majority country on earth. it's also hot, huge and unruly, made up of 17,000 islands, where people speak close to a thousand languages. now, suharto had been a dictator, and a nasty one. but he'd also been a pretty effective tyrant, and he'd always been careful to keep religion out of politics. so experts feared that without him keeping a lid on things, the country would explode, or religious extremists would take over and turn indonesia into a tropical version of iran. and that's just what seemed to happen at first. in the country's first free elections, in 1999, islamist parties scored 36 percent of the vote, and the islands burned as riots and terror attacks killed thousands.since then, however, indonesia has taken a surprising turn. while ordinary folks have grown more pious on a personal level — i saw a lot more headscarves on a recent visit than i would have a decade ago — the country's politics have moved in the opposite direction. indonesia is now a pretty decent democracy. and yet, its islamist parties have steadily lost support, from a high of about 38 percent in 2004 down to 25 percent in 2014. as for terrorism, it's now extremely rare. and while a few indonesians have recently joined isis, their number is tiny, far fewer in per capita terms than the number of belgians. try to think of one other muslim-majority country that can say all those same things.in 2014, i went to indonesia to ask its current president, a soft-spoken technocrat named joko widodo, "why is indonesia thriving when so many other muslim states are dying?""well, what we realized," he told me, "is that to deal with extremism, we needed to deal with inequality first."see, indonesia's religious parties, like similar parties elsewhere, had tended to focus on things like reducing poverty and cutting corruption. so that's what joko and his predecessors did too, thereby stealing the islamists' thunder. they also cracked down hard on terrorism, but indonesia's democrats have learned a key lesson from the dark years of dictatorship, namely that repression only creates more extremism. so they waged their war with extraordinary delicacy. they used the police instead of the army. they only detained suspects if they had enough evidence. they held public trials. they even sent liberal imams into the jails to persuade the jihadists that terror is un-islamic. and all of this paid off in spectacular fashion, creating the kind of country that was unimaginable 20 years ago.so at this point, my optimism should, i hope, be starting to make a bit more sense. neither immigration nor islamic extremism are impossible to deal with. join me now on one last trip, this time to mexico. now, of our three stories, this one probably surprised me the most, since as you all know, the country is still struggling with so many problems. and yet, a few years ago, mexico did something that many other countries from france to india to the united states can still only dream of. it shattered the political paralysis that had gripped it for years.to understand how, we need to rewind to the year 2000, when mexico finally became a democracy. rather than use their new freedoms to fight for reform, mexico's politicians used them to fight one another. congress deadlocked, and the country's problems — drugs, poverty, crime, corruption — spun out of control. things got so bad that in 2008, the pentagon warned that mexico risked collapse.then in 2012, this guy named enrique peña nieto somehow got himself elected president. now, this peña hardly inspired much confidence at first. sure, he was handsome, but he came from mexico's corrupt old ruling party, the pri, and he was a notorious womanizer. in fact, he seemed like such a pretty boy lightweight that women called him "bombón," sweetie, at campaign rallies. and yet this same bombón soon surprised everyone by hammering out a truce between the country's three warring political parties. and over the next 18 months, they together passed an incredibly comprehensive set of reforms. they busted open mexico's smothering monopolies. they liberalized its rusting energy sector. they restructured its failing schools, and much more. to appreciate the scale of this accomplishment, try to imagine the us congress passing immigration reform, campaign finance reform and banking reform. now, try to imagine congress doing it all at the same time. that's what mexico did.not long ago, i met with peña and asked how he managed it all. the president flashed me his famous twinkly smile — and told me that the short answer was "compromiso," compromise. of course, i pushed him for details, and the long answer that came out was essentially "compromise, compromise and more compromise." see, peña knew that he needed to build trust early, so he started talking to the opposition just days after his election. to ward off pressure from special interests, he kept their meetings small and secret, and many of the participants later told me that it was this intimacy, plus a lot of shared tequila, that helped build confidence. so did the fact that all decisions had to be unanimous, and that peña even agreed to pass some of the other party's priorities before his own. as santiago creel, an opposition senator, put it to me, "look, i'm not saying that i'm special or that anyone is special, but that group, that was special." the proof? when peña was sworn in, the pact held, and mexico moved forward for the first time in years. bueno.so now we've seen how these three countries overcame three of their great challenges. and that's very nice for them, right? but what good does it do the rest of us?well, in the course of studying these and a bunch of other success stories, like the way rwanda pulled itself back together after civil war or brazil has reduced inequality, or south korea has kept its economy growing faster and for longer than any other country on earth, i've noticed a few common threads.now, before describing them, i need to add a caveat. i realize, of course, that all countries are unique. so you can't simply take what worked in one, port it to another and expect it to work there too. nor do specific solutions work forever. you've got to adapt them as circumstances change.that said, by stripping these stories to their essence, you absolutely can distill a few common tools for problem-solving that will work in other countries and in boardrooms and in all sorts of other contexts, too.number one, embrace the extreme. in all the stories we've just looked at, salvation came at a moment of existential peril. and that was no coincidence. take canada: when trudeau took office, he faced two looming dangers. first, though his vast, underpopulated country badly needed more bodies, its preferred source for white workers, europe, had just stopped exporting them as it finally recovered from world war ii. the other problem was that canada's long cold war between its french and its english communities had just become a hot one. quebec was threatening to secede, and canadians were actually killing other canadians over politics. now, countries face crises all the time. right? that's nothing special. but trudeau's genius was to realize that canada's crisis had swept away all the hurdles that usually block reform. canada had to open up. it had no choice. and it had to rethink its identity. again, it had no choice. and that gave trudeau a once-in-a-generation opportunity to break the old rules and write new ones. and like all our other heroes, he was smart enough to seize it.number two, there's power in promiscuous thinking. another striking similarity among good problem-solvers is that they're all pragmatists. they'll steal the best answers from wherever they find them, and they don't let details like party or ideology or sentimentality get in their way. as i mentioned earlier, indonesia's democrats were clever enough to steal many of the islamists' best campaign promises for themselves. they even invited some of the radicals into their governing coalition. now, that horrified a lot of secular indonesians. but by forcing the radicals to actually help govern, it quickly exposed the fact that they weren't any good at the job, and it got them mixed up in all of the grubby compromises and petty humiliations that are part of everyday politics. and that hurt their image so badly that they've never recovered.number three, please all of the people some of the time. i know i just mentioned how crises can grant leaders extraordinary freedoms. and that's true, but problem-solving often requires more than just boldness. it takes showing restraint, too, just when that's the last thing you want to do. take trudeau: when he took office, he could easily have put his core constituency, that is canada's french community, first. he could have pleased some of the people all of the time. and peña could have used his power to keep attacking the opposition, as was traditional in mexico. yet he chose to embrace his enemies instead, while forcing his own party to compromise. and trudeau pushed everyone to stop thinking in tribal terms and to see multiculturalism, not language and not skin color, as what made them quintessentially canadian. nobody got everything they wanted, but everyone got just enough that the bargains held.so at this point you may be thinking, "ok, tepperman, if the fixes really are out there like you keep insisting, then why aren't more countries already using them?" it's not like they require special powers to pull off. i mean, none of the leaders we've just looked at were superheroes. they didn't accomplish anything on their own, and they all had plenty of flaws. take indonesia's first democratic president, abdurrahman wahid. this man was so powerfully uncharismatic that he once fell asleep in the middle of his own speech. true story.so what this tells us is that the real obstacle is not ability, and it's not circumstances. it's something much simpler. making big changes involves taking big risks, and taking big risks is scary. overcoming that fear requires guts, and as you all know, gutsy politicians are painfully rare. but that doesn't mean we voters can't demand courage from our political leaders. i mean, that's why we put them in office in the first place. and given the state of the world today, there's really no other option.the answers are out there, but now it's up to us to elect more women and men brave enough to find them, to steal them and to make them work.thank you. <title = "The agony of trying to unsubscribe">
<tags = "['business', 'comedy', 'communication', 'humor', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Comedian and writer">
it's funny the things you forget. i went to see my mother the other day, and she told me this story that i'd completely forgotten about how, when we were driving together, she would pull the car over, and by the time she had gotten out of the car, and gone around the car to let me out of the car, i would have already gotten out of the car and pretended to have died. because that's how you die. and i remember, that was a game i used to play with myself to entertain myself whenever i was bored or frustrated. settle down. people say we live in an age of information overload. right? i don't know about that, but i just know that i get too many marketing emails. i got a marketing email from a supermarket firm, which will remain nameless for predominantly legal reasons, but which i'm going to call "safemart." i got an email from them, and it went like this, it said:"just three weeks until safemart at king's cross opens!!!"and i resented this, because not only do i not remember signing up to that, but i resent the fact that they appear to think that i should be excited about a shop opening.so what i did was i scrolled down to the bottom of the email, and i pressed, "unsubscribe." and i thought that'd be the end of it. but a week later, i got another one that said,"just two weeks until safemart at king's cross opens!!!"and i thought, obviously, i haven't clicked hard enough. so i tried it again. right? lo and behold, a week passes, you guessed it,"just one week until safemart at king's cross opens!!!"and here's the problem: the internet gave us access to everything; but it also gave everything access to us. it's hard enough to discriminate between the things that genuinely matter in this world and the minutiae of life, without having emails about supermarket chains and candy crush saga. and i was really annoyed with them, and i thought, ok, i was about to write a strongly worded email, which i can do quite well. and i thought, no — i'm going to find the game. so i replied to it, and i said,"i literally cannot wait!!!!" "what do you need from me?"they got back to me; a guy called dan said,"hi james. i've asked a colleague to help me with your query." like it needs help. and i said, "what's the plan, dan? i'm thinking fireworks, bouncy castle ..." "i'm not sure what you mean." i said, "i'm just tremendously excited about the opening!" "do you want to book the bouncy castle or shall i?"he said, "i think you have misunderstood." "a new store is opening, but there is no celebration planned."i said, "but what was all the 'three weeks until,' 'two weeks until' emails? i was getting excited." "i'm sorry you're disappointed." i said, "not to worry. let's do something anyway! besides, the deposit on the bouncy castle was non-refundable." "if we don't use it, we're out a few hundred quid, dan." he said, "mr. veitch, i'm not responsible for anything you have ordered."i said, "let's not get into who did what. bottom line: you and i are in this together." "question: will you be there to make sure people take their shoes off?" i'll be honest, then my relationship with dan deteriorated somewhat, because the next email i got was this:"thanks for your email - your case number is ..." that's outrageous. i said, "dan?" and i got — and i was just like, this is ... — and i, i .... and i said, "danny?" and i thought, this is terrible. all i'm doing is collecting case numbers. i said, "d-dog?" "the store is now open." i said, "but dan, they must have wondered why there was no bouncy castle."and then we were back to this.and that might have been the end of the story, but i remembered that anything — everything — even something as mundane as getting out of a car, can be fun if you find the right game.so, this is what i replied:[thanks for your email - your case number is #0000001.] and we just, uh ... it was like we were dancing. it was just a beautiful relationship. we just kept going. it was lovely. but to be honest, guys, it was quite labor-intensive, and i had other stuff to do, believe it or not. so what i did is i have a little email auto-replier program. and i set it up so every time it receives an email from safemart, it just pings one back. so i set it up, and it says,"thanks for your email - your case number is ..."then it has a little formula that i wrote to up the case number every time. and i put it on the server and set it running. i'll be honest, guys — then i forgot about it. i checked back on it the other day, and it appears there have been a number of emails going back and forth. we're on 21,439. it gives me an immense sense of satisfaction to know that these computer programs are just going to be pinging one another for eternity. and as legacies go, i don't think that's bad.so guys, just remember: if ever you feel weighed down by the bureaucracy and often mundanity of modern life, don't fight the frustration. let it be the catalyst for whimsy. thank you. <title = "Let's teach for mastery -- not test scores">
<tags = "['children', 'education', 'goal-setting', 'intelligence', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Educator and social entrepreneur">
i'm here today to talk about the two ideas that, at least based on my observations at khan academy, are kind of the core, or the key leverage points for learning. and it's the idea of mastery and the idea of mindset.i saw this in the early days working with my cousins. a lot of them were having trouble with math at first, because they had all of these gaps accumulated in their learning. and because of that, at some point they got to an algebra class and they might have been a little bit shaky on some of the pre-algebra, and because of that, they thought they didn't have the math gene. or they'd get to a calculus class, and they'd be a little bit shaky on the algebra. i saw it in the early days when i was uploading some of those videos on youtube, and i realized that people who were not my cousins were watching. and at first, those comments were just simple thank-yous. i thought that was a pretty big deal. i don't know how much time you all spend on youtube. most of the comments are not "thank you." they're a little edgier than that. but then the comments got a little more intense, student after student saying that they had grown up not liking math. it was getting difficult as they got into more advanced math topics. by the time they got to algebra, they had so many gaps in their knowledge they couldn't engage with it. they thought they didn't have the math gene. but when they were a bit older, they took a little agency and decided to engage. they found resources like khan academy and they were able to fill in those gaps and master those concepts, and that reinforced their mindset that it wasn't fixed; that they actually were capable of learning mathematics.and in a lot of ways, this is how you would master a lot of things in life. it's the way you would learn a martial art. in a martial art, you would practice the white belt skills as long as necessary, and only when you've mastered it you would move on to become a yellow belt. it's the way you learn a musical instrument: you practice the basic piece over and over again, and only when you've mastered it, you go on to the more advanced one.but what we point out — this is not the way a traditional academic model is structured, the type of academic model that most of us grew up in. in a traditional academic model, we group students together, usually by age, and around middle school, by age and perceived ability, and we shepherd them all together at the same pace. and what typically happens, let's say we're in a middle school pre-algebra class, and the current unit is on exponents, the teacher will give a lecture on exponents, then we'll go home, do some homework. the next morning, we'll review the homework, then another lecture, homework, lecture, homework. that will continue for about two or three weeks, and then we get a test. on that test, maybe i get a 75 percent, maybe you get a 90 percent, maybe you get a 95 percent. and even though the test identified gaps in our knowledge, i didn't know 25 percent of the material. even the a student, what was the five percent they didn't know?even though we've identified the gaps, the whole class will then move on to the next subject, probably a more advanced subject that's going to build on those gaps. it might be logarithms or negative exponents. and that process continues, and you immediately start to realize how strange this is. i didn't know 25 percent of the more foundational thing, and now i'm being pushed to the more advanced thing. and this will continue for months, years, all the way until at some point, i might be in an algebra class or trigonometry class and i hit a wall. and it's not because algebra is fundamentally difficult or because the student isn't bright. it's because i'm seeing an equation and they're dealing with exponents and that 30 percent that i didn't know is showing up. and then i start to disengage.to appreciate how absurd that is, imagine if we did other things in our life that way. say, home-building. so we bring in the contractor and say, "we were told we have two weeks to build a foundation. do what you can." so they do what they can. maybe it rains. maybe some of the supplies don't show up. and two weeks later, the inspector comes, looks around, says, "ok, the concrete is still wet right over there, that part's not quite up to code ... i'll give it an 80 percent." you say, "great! that's a c. let's build the first floor." same thing. we have two weeks, do what you can, inspector shows up, it's a 75 percent. great, that's a d-plus. second floor, third floor, and all of a sudden, while you're building the third floor, the whole structure collapses. and if your reaction is the reaction you typically have in education, or that a lot of folks have, you might say, maybe we had a bad contractor, or maybe we needed better inspection or more frequent inspection. but what was really broken was the process. we were artificially constraining how long we had to something, pretty much ensuring a variable outcome, and we took the trouble of inspecting and identifying those gaps, but then we built right on top of it.so the idea of mastery learning is to do the exact opposite. instead of artificially constraining, fixing when and how long you work on something, pretty much ensuring that variable outcome, the a, b, c, d, f — do it the other way around. what's variable is when and how long a student actually has to work on something, and what's fixed is that they actually master the material.and it's important to realize that not only will this make the student learn their exponents better, but it'll reinforce the right mindset muscles. it makes them realize that if you got 20 percent wrong on something, it doesn't mean that you have a c branded in your dna somehow. it means that you should just keep working on it. you should have grit; you should have perseverance; you should take agency over your learning.now, a lot of skeptics might say, well, hey, this is all great, philosophically, this whole idea of mastery-based learning and its connection to mindset, students taking agency over their learning. it makes a lot of sense, but it seems impractical. to actually do it, every student would be on their own track. it would have to be personalized, you'd have to have private tutors and worksheets for every student. and these aren't new ideas — there were experiments in winnetka, illinois, 100 years ago, where they did mastery-based learning and saw great results, but they said it wouldn't scale because it was logistically difficult. the teacher had to give different worksheets to every student, give on-demand assessments.but now today, it's no longer impractical. we have the tools to do it. students see an explanation at their own time and pace? there's on-demand video for that. they need practice? they need feedback? there's adaptive exercises readily available for students.and when that happens, all sorts of neat things happen. one, the students can actually master the concepts, but they're also building their growth mindset, they're building grit, perseverance, they're taking agency over their learning. and all sorts of beautiful things can start to happen in the actual classroom. instead of it being focused on the lecture, students can interact with each other. they can get deeper mastery over the material. they can go into simulations, socratic dialogue.to appreciate what we're talking about and the tragedy of lost potential here, i'd like to give a little bit of a thought experiment. if we were to go 400 years into the past to western europe, which even then, was one of the more literate parts of the planet, you would see that about 15 percent of the population knew how to read. and i suspect that if you asked someone who did know how to read, say a member of the clergy, "what percentage of the population do you think is even capable of reading?" they might say, "well, with a great education system, maybe 20 or 30 percent." but if you fast forward to today, we know that that prediction would have been wildly pessimistic, that pretty close to 100 percent of the population is capable of reading. but if i were to ask you a similar question: "what percentage of the population do you think is capable of truly mastering calculus, or understanding organic chemistry, or being able to contribute to cancer research?" a lot of you might say, "well, with a great education system, maybe 20, 30 percent."but what if that estimate is just based on your own experience in a non-mastery framework, your own experience with yourself or observing your peers, where you're being pushed at this set pace through classes, accumulating all these gaps? even when you got that 95 percent, what was that five percent you missed? and it keeps accumulating — you get to an advanced class, all of a sudden you hit a wall and say, "i'm not meant to be a cancer researcher; not meant to be a physicist; not meant to be a mathematician." i suspect that that actually is the case, but if you were allowed to be operating in a mastery framework, if you were allowed to really take agency over your learning, and when you get something wrong, embrace it — view that failure as a moment of learning — that number, the percent that could really master calculus or understand organic chemistry, is actually a lot closer to 100 percent.and this isn't even just a "nice to have." i think it's a social imperative. we're exiting what you could call the industrial age and we're going into this information revolution. and it's clear that some things are happening. in the industrial age, society was a pyramid. at the base of the pyramid, you needed human labor. in the middle of the pyramid, you had an information processing, a bureaucracy class, and at the top of the pyramid, you had your owners of capital and your entrepreneurs and your creative class. but we know what's happening already, as we go into this information revolution. the bottom of that pyramid, automation, is going to take over. even that middle tier, information processing, that's what computers are good at.so as a society, we have a question: all this new productivity is happening because of this technology, but who participates in it? is it just going to be that very top of the pyramid, in which case, what does everyone else do? how do they operate? or do we do something that's more aspirational? do we actually attempt to invert the pyramid, where you have a large creative class, where almost everyone can participate as an entrepreneur, an artist, as a researcher?and i don't think that this is utopian. i really think that this is all based on the idea that if we let people tap into their potential by mastering concepts, by being able to exercise agency over their learning, that they can get there. and when you think of it as just a citizen of the world, it's pretty exciting. i mean, think about the type of equity we can we have, and the rate at which civilization could even progress. and so, i'm pretty optimistic about it. i think it's going to be a pretty exciting time to be alive.thank you. <title = "The new American Dream">
<tags = "['United States', 'business', 'children', 'cities', 'community', 'economics', 'family', 'friendship', 'future', 'goal-setting', 'happiness', 'humanity', 'identity', 'journalism', 'money', 'motivation', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'work', 'work-life balance']">
<occupation = "Journalist">
i'm a journalist, so i like to look for the untold stories, the lives that quietly play out under the scream of headlines. i've also been going about the business of putting down roots, choosing a partner, making babies. so for the last few years, i've been trying to understand what constitutes the 21st-century good life, both because i'm fascinated by the moral and philosophical implications, but also because i'm in desperate need of answers myself.we live in tenuous times. in fact, for the first time in american history, the majority of parents do not think that their kids will be better off than they were. this is true of rich and poor, men and women. now, some of you might hear this and feel sad. after all, america is deeply invested in this idea of economic transcendence, that every generation kind of leapfrogs the one before it, earning more, buying more, being more. we've exported this dream all over the world, so kids in brazil and china and even kenya inherit our insatiable expectation for more. but when i read this historic poll for the first time, it didn't actually make me feel sad. it felt like a provocation. "better off" — based on whose standards?is "better off" finding a secure job that you can count on for the rest of your life? those are nearly extinct. people move jobs, on average, every 4.7 years, and it's estimated that by 2020, nearly half of americans will be freelancers. ok, so is better off just a number? is it about earning as much as you possibly can? by that singular measurement, we are failing. median per capita income has been flat since about 2000, adjusted for inflation. all right, so is better off getting a big house with a white picket fence? less of us are doing that. nearly five million people lost their homes in the great recession, and even more of us sobered up about the lengths we were willing to go — or be tricked into going, in many predatory cases — to hold that deed. home-ownership rates are at their lowest since 1995.all right, so we're not finding steady employment, we're not earning as much money, and we're not living in big fancy houses. toll the funeral bells for everything that made america great. but, are those the best measurements of a country's greatness, of a life well lived? what i think makes america great is its spirit of reinvention. in the wake of the great recession, more and more americans are redefining what "better off" really means. turns out, it has more to do with community and creativity than dollars and cents.now, let me be very clear: the 14.8 percent of americans living in poverty need money, plain and simple. and all of us need policies that protect us from exploitation by employers and financial institutions. nothing that follows is meant to suggest that the gap between rich and poor is anything but profoundly immoral. but, too often we let the conversation stop there. we talk about poverty as if it were a monolithic experience; about the poor as if they were solely victims. part of what i've learned in my research and reporting is that the art of living well is often practiced most masterfully by the most vulnerable.now, if necessity is the mother of invention, i've come to believe that recession can be the father of consciousness. it confronts us with profound questions, questions we might be too lazy or distracted to ask in times of relative comfort. how should we work? how should we live? all of us, whether we realize it or not, seek answers to these questions, with our ancestors kind of whispering in our ears.my great-grandfather was a drunk in detroit, who sometimes managed to hold down a factory job. he had, as unbelievable as it might sound, 21 children, with one woman, my great-grandmother, who died at 47 years old of ovarian cancer. now, i'm pregnant with my second child, and i cannot even fathom what she must have gone through. and if you're trying to do the math — there were six sets of twins. so my grandfather, their son, became a traveling salesman, and he lived boom and bust. so my dad grew up answering the door for debt collectors and pretending his parents weren't home. he actually took his braces off himself with pliers in the garage, when his father admitted he didn't have money to go back to the orthodontist. so my dad, unsurprisingly, became a bankruptcy lawyer. couldn't write this in a novel, right? he was obsessed with providing a secure foundation for my brother and i.so i ask these questions by way of a few generations of struggle. my parents made sure that i grew up on a kind of steady ground that allows one to question and risk and leap. and ironically, and probably sometimes to their frustration, it is their steadfast commitment to security that allows me to question its value, or at least its value as we've historically defined it in the 21st century.so let's dig into this first question: how should we work? we should work like our mothers. that's right — we've spent decades trying to fit women into a work world built for company men. and many have done backbends to fit in, but others have carved a more unconventional path, creating a patchwork of meaning and money with enough flexibility to do what they need to do for those that they love. my mom called it "just making it work." today i hear life coaches call it "a portfolio career." whatever you call it, more and more men are craving these whole, if not harried, lives. they're waking up to their desire and duty to be present fathers and sons.now, artist ann hamilton has said, "labor is a way of knowing." labor is a way of knowing. in other words, what we work on is what we understand about the world. if this is true, and i think it is, then women who have disproportionately cared for the little ones and the sick ones and the aging ones, have disproportionately benefited from the most profound kind of knowing there is: knowing the human condition. by prioritizing care, men are, in a sense, staking their claim to the full range of human existence.now, this means the nine-to-five no longer works for anyone. punch clocks are becoming obsolete, as are career ladders. whole industries are being born and dying every day. it's all nonlinear from here. so we need to stop asking kids, "what do you want to be when you grow up?" and start asking them, "how do you want to be when you grow up?" their work will constantly change. the common denominator is them. so the more they understand their gifts and create crews of ideal collaborators, the better off they will be.the challenge ahead is to reinvent the social safety net to fit this increasingly fragmented economy. we need portable health benefits. we need policies that reflect that everyone deserves to be vulnerable or care for vulnerable others, without becoming destitute. we need to seriously consider a universal basic income. we need to reinvent labor organizing. the promise of a work world that is structured to actually fit our 21st century values, not some archaic idea about bringing home the bacon, is long overdue — just ask your mother.now, how about the second question: how should we live? we should live like our immigrant ancestors. when they came to america, they often shared apartments, survival tactics, child care — always knew how to fill one more belly, no matter how small the food available. but they were told that success meant leaving the village behind and pursuing that iconic symbol of the american dream, the white picket fence. and even today, we see a white picket fence and we think success, self-possession. but when you strip away the sentimentality, what it really does is divides us. many americans are rejecting the white picket fence and the kind of highly privatized life that happened within it, and reclaiming village life, reclaiming interdependence instead.fifty million of us, for example, live in intergenerational households. this number exploded with the great recession, but it turns out people actually like living this way. two-thirds of those who are living with multiple generations under one roof say it's improved their relationships. some people are choosing to share homes not with family, but with other people who understand the health and economic benefits of daily community. coabode, an online platform for single moms looking to share homes with other single moms, has 50,000 users. and people over 65 are especially prone to be looking for these alternative living arrangements. they understand that their quality of life depends on a mix of solitude and solidarity. which is true of all of us when you think about it, young and old alike. for too long, we've pretended that happiness is a king in his castle. but all the research proves otherwise. it shows that the healthiest, happiest and even safest — in terms of both climate change disaster, in terms of crime, all of that — are americans who live lives intertwined with their neighbors.now, i've experienced this firsthand. for the last few years, i've been living in a cohousing community. it's 1.5 acres of persimmon trees, this prolific blackberry bush that snakes around a community garden, all smack-dab, by the way, in the middle of urban oakland. the nine units are all built to be different, different sizes, different shapes, but they're meant to be as green as possible. so big, shiny black solar cells on our roof mean our electricity bill rarely exceeds more than five bucks in a month. the 25 of us who live there are all different ages and political persuasions and professions, and we live in homes that have everything a typical home would have. but additionally, we share an industrial-sized kitchen and eating area, where we have common meals twice a week.now, people, when i tell them i live like this, often have one of two extreme reactions. either they say, "why doesn't everyone live like this?" or they say, "that sounds totally horrifying. i would never want to do that." so let me reassure you: there is a sacred respect for privacy among us, but also a commitment to what we call "radical hospitality" — not the kind advertised by the four seasons, but the kind that says that every single person is worthy of kindness, full stop, end of sentence.the biggest surprise for me of living in a community like this? you share all the domestic labor — the repairing, the cooking, the weeding — but you also share the emotional labor. rather than depending only on the idealized family unit to get all of your emotional needs met, you have two dozen other people that you can go to to talk about a hard day at work or troubleshoot how to handle an abusive teacher. teenagers in our community will often go to an adult that is not their parent to ask for advice. it's what bell hooks called "revolutionary parenting," this humble acknowledgment that kids are healthier when they have a wider range of adults to emulate and count on. turns out, adults are healthier, too. it's a lot of pressure, trying to be that perfect family behind that white picket fence.the "new better off," as i've come to call it, is less about investing in the perfect family and more about investing in the imperfect village, whether that's relatives living under one roof, a cohousing community like mine, or just a bunch of neighbors who pledge to really know and look out for one another. it's good common sense, right? and yet, money has often made us dumb about reaching out. the most reliable wealth is found in relationship.the new better off is not an individual prospect at all. in fact, if you're a failure or you think you're a failure, i've got some good news for you: you might be a success by standards you have not yet honored. maybe you're a mediocre earner but a masterful father. maybe you can't afford your dream home, but you throw legendary neighborhood parties. if you're a textbook success, the implications of what i'm saying could be more grim for you. you might be a failure by standards you hold dear but that the world doesn't reward. only you can know.i know that i am not a tribute to my great-grandmother, who lived such a short and brutish life, if i earn enough money to afford every creature comfort. you can't buy your way out of suffering or into meaning. there is no home big enough to erase the pain that she must have endured. i am a tribute to her if i live a life as connected and courageous as possible. in the midst of such widespread uncertainty, we may, in fact, be insecure. but we can let that insecurity make us brittle or supple. we can turn inward, lose faith in the power of institutions to change — even lose faith in ourselves. or we can turn outward, cultivate faith in our ability to reach out, to connect, to create.turns out, the biggest danger is not failing to achieve the american dream. the biggest danger is achieving a dream that you don't actually believe in. so don't do that. do the harder, more interesting thing, which is to compose a life where what you do every single day, the people you give your best love and ingenuity and energy to, aligns as closely as possible with what you believe. that, not something as mundane as making money, is a tribute to your ancestors. that is the beautiful struggle.thank you. <title = "Why helmets don't prevent concussions -- and what might">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'biomechanics', 'brain', 'children', 'design', 'engineering', 'health', 'innovation', 'invention', 'medical research', 'mental health', 'neuroscience', 'product design', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Bioengineer">
the word concussion evokes a fear these days more so than it ever has, and i know this personally. i played 10 years of football, was struck in the head thousands of times. and i have to tell you, though, what was much worse than that was a pair of bike accidents i had where i suffered concussions, and i'm still dealing with the effects of the most recent one today as i stand in front of you.there is a fear around concussion that does have some evidence behind it. there is information that a repeated history of concussion can lead to early dementia, such as alzheimer's, and chronic traumatic encephalopathy. that was the subject of the will smith movie "concussion." and so everybody is caught up in football and what they see in the military, but you may not know that bike riding is the leading cause of concussion for kids, sports-related concussion, that is. and so another thing that i should tell you that you may not know is that the helmets that are worn in bicycling and football and many activities, they're not designed or tested for how well they can protect your children against concussion. they're in fact designed and tested for their ability to protect against skull fracture.and so i get this question all the time from parents, and they ask me, "would you let your own child play football?" or, "should i let my child play soccer?" and i think that as a field, we're a long way from giving an answer with any kind of confidence there.so i look at that question from a bit of a different lens, and i want to know, how can we prevent concussion? is that even possible? and most experts think that it's not, but the work that we're doing in my lab is starting to reveal more of the details around concussion so that we can have a better understanding. the reason we're able to prevent skull fracture with helmets is because it's pretty simple. we know how it works. concussion has been much more of a mystery.so to give you a sense of what might be happening in a concussion, i want to show you the video here that you see when you type into google, "what is a concussion?" the cdc website comes up, and this video essentially tells the whole story. what you see is the head moves forward, the brain lags behind, then the brain catches up and smashes into the skull. it rebounds off the skull and then proceeds to run into the other side of the skull. and what you'll notice is highlighted in this video from the cdc, which i'll note was funded by the nfl, is that the outer surface of the brain, where it was to have smashed into the skull, looks like it's been damaged or injured, so it's on the outer surface of the brain. and what i'd like to do with this video is to tell you that there are some aspects that are probably right, indicative of what the scientists think happens with concussion, but there's probably more that's wrong with this video.so one thing that i do agree with, and i think most experts would, is that the brain does have these dynamics. it does lag behind the skull and then catch up and move back and forth and oscillate. that we think is true. however, the amount of motion you see in the brain in this video is probably not right at all. there's very little room in the cranial vault, only a few millimeters, and it's filled entirely with cerebral spinal fluid, which acts as a protective layer. and so the brain as a whole probably moves very little inside the skull.the other problem with this video is that the brain is shown as a kind of rigid whole as it moves around, and that's not true either. your brain is one of the softest substances in your body, and you can think of it kind of like jello. so as your head is moving back and forth, your brain is twisting and turning and contorting, and the tissue is getting stretched. and so most experts, i think, would agree that concussion is not likely to be something that's happening on this outer surface of the brain, but rather it's something that's much deeper towards the center of the brain.now, the way that we're approaching this problem to try to understand the mechanisms of concussion and to figure out if we can prevent it is we are using a device like this. it's a mouthguard. it has sensors in it that are essentially the same that are in your cell phone: accelerometers, gyroscopes, and when someone is struck in the head, it can tell you how their head moved at a thousand samples per second. the principle behind the mouthguard is this: it fits onto your teeth. your teeth are one of the hardest substances in your body. so it rigidly couples to your skull and gives you the most precise possible measurement of how the skull moves. people have tried other approaches, with helmets. we've looked at other sensors that go on your skin, and they all simply move around too much, and so we found that this is the only reliable way to take a good measurement.so now that we've got this device, we can go beyond studying cadavers, because you can only learn so much about concussion from studying a cadaver, and we want to learn and study live humans. so where can we find a group of willing volunteers to go out and smash their heads into each other on a regular basis and sustain concussion? well, i was one of them, and it's your local friendly stanford football team.so this is our laboratory, and i want to show you the first concussion we measured with this device. one of the things that i should point out is the device has this gyroscope in it, and that allows you to measure the rotation of the head. most experts think that that's the critical factor that might start to tell us what is happening in concussion. so please watch this video.announcer: cougars bring extra people late, but luck has time, and winslow is crushed. i hope he's all right.(audience roars)top of your screen, you'll see him come on just this little post route, get separation, safety. here it comes at you in real speed. you'll hear this. the hit delivered by —david camarillo: sorry, three times is probably a little excessive there. but you get the idea.so when you look at just the film here, pretty much the only thing you can see is he got hit really hard and he was hurt. but when we extract the data out of the mouthguard that he was wearing, we can see much more detail, much richer information. and one of the things that we noticed here is that he was struck in the lower left side of his face mask. and so that did something first that was a little counterintuitive. his head did not move to the right. in fact, it rotated first to the left. then as the neck began to compress, the force of the blow caused it to whip back to the right. so this left-right motion was sort of a whiplash-type phenomenon, and we think that is probably what led to the brain injury.now, this device is only limited in such that it can measure the skull motion, but what we really want to know is what's happening inside of the brain. so we collaborate with svein kleiven's group in sweden. they've developed a finite element model of the brain. and so this is a simulation using the data from our mouthguard from the injury i just showed you, and what you see is the brain — this is a cross-section right in the front of the brain twisting and contorting as i mentioned. so you can see this doesn't look a lot like the cdc video. now, the colors that you're looking at are how much the brain tissue is being stretched. and so the red is 50 percent. that means the brain has been stretched to 50 percent of its original length, the tissue in that particular area.and the main thing i want to draw your attention to is this red spot. so the red spot is very close to the center of the brain, and relatively speaking, you don't see a lot of colors like that on the exterior surface as the cdc video showed.now, to explain a little more detail about how we think concussion might be happening, one thing i should mention is that we and others have observed that a concussion is more likely when you're struck and your head rotates in this direction. this is more common in sports like football, but this seems to be more dangerous. so what might be happening there? well, one thing that you'll notice in the human brain that is different than other animals is we have these two very large lobes. we have the right brain and the left brain. and the key thing to notice in this figure here is that right down the center of the right brain and the left brain there's a large fissure that goes deep into the brain. and in that fissure, what you can't see in this image, you'll have to trust me, there is a fibrous sheet of tissue. it's called the falx, and it runs from the front of your head all the way to the back of your head, and it's quite stiff. and so what that allows for is when you're struck and your head rotates in this left-right direction, forces can rapidly transmit right down to the center of your brain.now, what's there at the bottom of this fissure? it's the wiring of your brain, and in fact this red bundle here at the bottom of that fissure is the single largest fiber bundle that is the wiring that connects the right and left sides of your brain. it's called the corpus callosum. and we think that this might be one of the most common mechanisms of concussion, and as the forces move down, they strike the corpus callosum, it causes a dissociation between your right and your left brain and could explain some of the symptoms of concussion.this finding is also consistent of what we've seen in this brain disease that i mentioned, chronic traumatic encephalopathy. so this is an image of a middle-aged ex-professional football player, and the thing that i want to point out is if you look at the corpus callosum, and i'll page back here so you can see the size of a normal corpus callosum and the size of the person here who has chronic traumatic encephalopathy, it is greatly atrophied. and the same goes for all of the space in the ventricles. these ventricles are much larger. and so all of this tissue near the center of the brain has died off over time. so what we're learning is indeed consistent.now, there is some good news here, and i hope to give you a sense of hope by the end of this talk. one of the things that we've noticed, specifically about this mechanism of injury, is although there's a rapid transmission of the forces down this fissure, it still takes a defined amount of time. and what we think is that if we can slow the head down just enough so that the brain does not lag behind the skull but instead it moves in synchrony with the skull, then we might be able to prevent this mechanism of concussion.so how can we slow the head down? a gigantic helmet. so with more space, you have more time, and this is a bit of a joke, but some of you may have seen this. this is bubble soccer, and it's a real sport. in fact, i saw some young adults playing this sport down the street from my house the other day, and as far as i know there have been no reported concussions. but in all seriousness, this principle does work, but this has gone too far. this isn't something that's practical for bike riding or playing football. and so we are collaborating with a company in sweden called hövding. some of you may have seen their work, and they're using the same principle of air to give you some extra space to prevent concussion. kids, don't try this at home please. this stuntman does not have a helmet. he instead has a neck collar, and this neck collar has sensors in it, the same type of sensors that are in our mouthguard, and it detects when he's likely to have a fall, and there's an airbag that explodes and triggers, the same way that an airbag works in your car, essentially. and in the experiments we've done in my lab with their device, we found that it can greatly reduce the risk of concussion in some scenarios compared to a normal bicycle helmet. so it's a pretty exciting development.but in order for us to actually realize the benefits of technology that can prevent concussion, it needs to meet regulations. that's a reality. and this device is for sale in europe but is not for sale in the us, and probably won't be any time soon. so i wanted to tell you why. there are some good reasons and then there are some not so good reasons.bike helmets are federally regulated. the consumer product safety commission has been given jurisdiction to approve any bike helmet for sale, and this is the test they use. this is back to what i was telling you at the beginning about skull fracture. that's what this test is for. and that's an important thing to do. it can save your life, but it's not sufficient, i would say. so for example, one thing this test doesn't evaluate is it doesn't tell you is that airbag going to trigger at the right time and place, and not trigger when it doesn't need to? similarly, it's not going to tell you is this helmet likely to prevent concussion or not? and if you look at football helmets, which aren't regulated, they still have a very similar test. they're not regulated by the government, anyway. they have an industry body, which is the way most industries work. but this industry body, i can tell you, has been quite resistant to updating their standards. so in my lab, we are working on not only the mechanism of concussion, but we want to understand how can we have better test standards? and we hope that the government can use this type of information to encourage innovation by letting consumers know how protected are you with a given helmet.and i want to bring this back finally to the original question i asked, which is, would i feel comfortable letting my child play football or ride a bicycle? and this might be just a result of my own traumatic experience. i'm much more nervous about my daughter, rose, riding a bicycle. so she's a year and a half old, and she's already, well, wants to anyway, race down the streets of san francisco. this is the bottom of one of these streets. and so my personal goal is to — and i believe this is possible — is to further develop these technologies, and in fact, we're working on something in my lab in particular that really makes optimal use of the given space of a helmet. and i am confident that we will be able to, before she's ready to ride a two-wheeler, have something available that can in fact really reduce the risk of concussion and comply with regulatory bodies.and so what i'd like to do — and i know that this is for some of you of more immediate nature, i've got a couple years here — is to be able to tell parents and grandparents when i'm asked, it is safe and healthy for your children to engage in these activities. and i'm very fortunate to have a wonderful team at stanford that's working hard on this.so i hope to come back in a few years with the final story, but for now i will tell you, please don't just be afraid when you hear the word concussion. there is hope.thank you. <title = "A new way to heal hearts without surgery">
<tags = "['South America', 'Surgery', 'engineering', 'heart health', 'invention', 'medical research']">
<occupation = "Pediatric cardiologist">
the most complex problems in our time can be solved with simple techniques, if we are able to dream.as a child, i discovered that creativity is the key to cross from dreams to reality. i learned this from my grandmother, dr. ruth tichauer, a jewish refugee that settled in the heart of the andes. that is how i grew up: encouraged to see beyond any limitation. so part of my education included helping her in remote, indigenous communities. i cherish those memories, because they helped me to understand life outside the city, a life with a lot of possibilities, without barriers, as language or culture.during those trips, my grandmother used to recite a kipling poem: "something hidden. go and find it. go and look behind the mountains. something lost behind the mountains. lost and waiting for you. go!"in the coming years, i became a medical student. one of every hundred children born worldwide has some kind of heart disease. there's a part of this problem i think i can solve — the part of this problem i have spent my life working on.the problem starts during pregnancy. the fetus needs to survive inside the mother. survival depends on communication between the systemic and the pulmonary blood. at the moment of birth, this communication needs to stop. if it doesn't close, the baby has a hole in the heart. it is caused by prematurity and genetic conditions. but what we know today is that a lack of oxygen is also one of the causes. as you can see in the chart, the frequency of this kind of hole dramatically increases with altitude.video: (baby crying)when you look at patients with this condition, they seem desperate to breathe. to close the hole, major surgery used to be the only solution.one night, my friend malte, were camping in the amazon region. the only thing that would not burn in the fire was a green avocado branch. then came a moment of inspiration. so we used the branch as a mold for our first invention. the holes in children's hearts can be closed with it. a coil is a piece of wire wrapped onto itself. it maybe doesn't look so fancy to you now, but that was our first successful attempt to create a device for this major problem. in this video, we can see how a very tiny catheter takes the coil to the heart. the coil then closes the hole. after that moment of inspiration, there came a very long time of effort developing a prototype. in vitro and in vivo studies took thousands of hours of work in the lab. the coil, if it works, can save lives.i returned from germany to bolivia, thinking that wherever we go, we have the opportunity to make a difference. with my wife and partner, dr. alexandra heath, we started to see patients. after successfully treating patients with our coil, we felt really enthusiastic. but we live in a place that is 12,000 feet high. and, the patients there need a special device to solve their heart condition. the hole in altitude patients is different, because the orifice between the arteries is larger. most patients cannot afford to be treated on time, and they die. the first coil could successfully treat only half of the patients in bolivia. the search started again. we went back to the drawing board.after many trials, and with the help of my grandmother's indigenous friends in the mountains, we obtained a new device. for centuries, indigenous women told stories by weaving complex patterns on looms, and an unexpected skill helped us for the new device. we take this traditional method of weaving and make a design made by a smart material that records shape. it seems this time, the weaving allows us to create a seamless device that doesn't rust because it's made of only one piece. it can change by itself into very complex structures by a procedure that took decades to develop.as you can see, the device enters the body through the natural channels. doctors have only to close the catheter through the hole. our device expands, places itself and closes the hole. we have this beautiful delivery system that is so simple to use because it works by itself. no open surgery was necessary. as doctors, we fight with diseases that take a long time and effort to heal — if they do. this is the child from before, after the procedure. as you can see — as you can see, once the device is in place, the patient is 100 percent healed. from start to finish, the whole procedure takes only 30 minutes. that's very rewarding from the medical and human point of view. we are so proud that some of our former patients are part of our team — a team, thanks to added close interaction with patients that work with us. together, we have only one idea: the best solutions need to be simple. we lost the fear of creating something new.the path, it's not easy. many obstacles arise all the time. but we receive strength from our patients. their resilience and courage inspire our creativity. our goal is to make sure that no child is left behind, not because of cost or access.so we have to start a foundation with a one-to-one model. we will give one device for free to make sure that every child is treated. we are in many countries now, but we need to be everywhere. this whole thing began with one impossible idea as will continue it, really: no child is left behind.muchas gracias. <title = "The future of money">
<tags = "['Internet', 'business', 'capitalism', 'computers', 'data', 'economics', 'future', 'global development', 'mobility', 'money', 'potential', 'privacy', 'shopping', 'social change', 'society', 'software', 'technology', 'web']">
<occupation = "Currency futurist">
i want to tell you about the future of money. let's start with a story about this culture that lived in micronesia in the early 1900s, called the yap. now, i want to tell you about the yap because their form of money is really interesting. they use these limestone discs called rai stones. now, the yap don't actually move these rai stones around or exchange them the way we do with our coins, because rai stones can get to be pretty massive. the largest is about four tons and 12 feet across. so the yap just keep track of who owns part of what stone.there's a story about these sailors that were transporting a stone across the ocean when they ran into some trouble and the stone actually fell in. the sailors got back to the main island and they told everyone what had happened. and everyone decided that, actually, yes, the sailors had the stone and — why not? — it still counted. even though it was at the bottom of the ocean, it was still part of the yap economy.you might think that this was just a small culture a hundred years ago. but things like this happen in the western world as well, and the yap actually still use a form of these stones.in 1932, the bank of france asked the united states to convert their holdings from dollars into gold. but it was too inconvenient to think about actually shipping all of that gold over to europe. so instead, someone went to where that gold was being stored and they just labeled it as belonging to france now. and everyone agreed that france owned the gold. it's just like those rai stones.the point i want to make with these two examples is that there's nothing inherently valuable about a dollar or a stone or a coin. the only reason these things have any value is because we've all decided they should. and because we've decided that, they do. money is about the exchanges and the transactions that we have with each other. money isn't anything objective. it's about a collective story that we tell each other about value. a collective fiction. and that's a really powerful concept.in the past two decades, we've begun to use digital money. so i get paid via direct deposit, i pay my rent via bank transfer, i pay my taxes online. and every month, a small amount of money is deducted from my paycheck and invested in mutual funds in my retirement account. all of these interactions are literally just changing 1's and 0's on computers. there's not even anything physical, like a stone or a coin. digital money makes it so that i can pay someone around the world in seconds.now when this works, it's because there are large institutions underwriting every 1 or 0 that changes on a computer. and when it doesn't, it's often the fault of those large institutions. or at least, it's up to them to fix the problem. and a lot of times, they don't. there's a lot of friction in the system. how long did it take the us credit card companies to implement chip and pin? half my credit cards still don't work in europe. that's friction. transferring money across borders and across currencies is really expensive: friction. an entrepreneur in india can set up an online business in minutes, but it's hard for her to get loans and to get paid: friction. our access to digital money and our ability to freely transact is being held captive by these gatekeepers. and there's a lot of impediments in the system slowing things down.that's because digital money isn't really mine, it's entries in databases that belong to my bank, my credit card company or my investment firm. and these companies have the right to say "no." if i'm a paypal merchant and paypal wrongly flags me for fraud, that's it. my account gets frozen, and i can't get paid.these institutions are standing in the way of innovation. how many of you use facebook photos, google photos, instagram? my photos are everywhere. they are on my phone, they're on my laptop, they're on my old phone, they're in dropbox. they're on all these different websites and services. and most of these services don't work together. they don't inter-operate. and as a result, my photo library is a mess.the same thing happens when institutions control the money supply. a lot of these services don't inter-operate, and as a result, this blocks what we can do with payment. and it makes transaction costs go up. so far, we've been through two phases of money. in an analog world, we had to deal with these physical objects, and money moved at a certain speed — the speed of humans. in a digital world, money can reach much farther and is much faster, but we're at the mercy of these gatekeeper institutions. money only moves at the speed of banks.we're about to enter a new phase of money. the future of money is programmable. when we combine software and currency, money becomes more than just a static unit of value, and we don't have to rely on institutions for security. in a programmable world, we remove humans and institutions from the loop. and when this happens, we won't even feel like we're transacting anymore. money will be directed by software, and it will just safely and securely flow.cryptocurrencies are the first step of this evolution. cryptocurrencies are digital money that isn't run by any government or bank. it's money designed to work in a world without intermediaries. bitcoin is the most ubiquitous cryptocurrency, but there are hundreds of them. there's ethereum, litecoin, stellar, dogecoin, and those are just a few of the more popular ones. and these things are real money. the sushi restaurant down my street takes bitcoin. i have an app on my phone that i can use to buy sashimi. but it's not just for small transactions. in march, there was a transaction that moved around 100,000 bitcoins. that's the equivalent of 40 million us dollars.cryptocurrencies are based on a special field of mathematics called cryptography. cryptography is the study of how to secure communication, and it's about two really important things: masking information so it can be hidden in plain sight, and verifying a piece of information's source. cryptography underpins so many of the systems around us. and it's so powerful that at times the us government has actually classified it as a weapon.during world war ii, breaking cryptosystems like enigma was critical to decoding enemy transmissions and turning the tide of the war. today, anyone with a modern web browser is running a pretty sophisticated cryptosystem. it's what we use to secure our interactions on the internet. it's what makes it safe for us to type our passwords in and to send financial information to websites. so what the banks used to give us — trustworthy digital money transfer — we can now get with a clever application of cryptography. and this means that we don't have to rely on the banks anymore to secure our transactions. we can do it ourselves.bitcoin is based on the very same idea that the yap used, this collective global knowledge of transfers. in bitcoin, i spend by transferring bitcoin, and i get paid when someone transfers bitcoin to me.imagine that we had this magic paper. so the way that this paper works is i can give you a sheet of it and if you write something on it, it will magically appear on my piece as well. let's say we just give everyone this paper and everyone writes down the transfers that they're doing in the bitcoin system. all of these transfers get copied around to everyone else's pieces of paper. and i can look at mine and i'll have a list of all of the transfers that are happening in the entire bitcoin economy. this is actually what's happening with the bitcoin blockchain, which is a list of all of the transactions in bitcoin. except, it's not done through paper. it's done through computer code, running on thousands of networked computers around the world. all of these computers are collectively confirming who owns what bitcoin. so the bitcoin blockchain is core to how bitcoin works.but where do bitcoins actually come from? well, the code is designed to create new bitcoin according to a schedule. and the way that it works is that to get those bitcoin, i have to solve a puzzle — a random cryptographic puzzle. imagine that we had 15 dice, and we were throwing these dice over and over again. whenever the dice come up all sixes, we say that we win. this is very close to what these computers are all actually doing. they're trying over and over again to land on the right number. and when they do, we say that they've solved the puzzle.the computer that solves the puzzle publishes its solution to the rest of the network and collects its reward: new bitcoins. and in the act of solving this puzzle, these computers are actually helping to secure the bitcoin blockchain and add to the list of transactions.there are actually people all over the world running this software, and we call them bitcoin miners. anyone can become a bitcoin miner. you can go download the software right now and run it in your computer and try to collect some bitcoins. i can't say that i would recommend it, because right now, the puzzle is so hard and the network is so powerful, that if i tried to mine bitcoin on my laptop, i probably wouldn't see any for about two million years. the miners, professional miners, use this special hardware that's designed to solve the puzzle really fast. now, the bitcoin network and all of this special hardware, there are estimates that the amount of energy it uses is equivalent to that of a small country. so, the first set of cryptocurrencies are a little bit slow and a little bit cumbersome. but the next generation is going to be so much better and so much faster.cryptocurrencies are the first step to a world with a global programmable money. and in a world with programmable money, i can pay anyone else securely without having to sign up or ask permission, or do a conversion or worry about my money getting stuck. and i can send money around the world. this is a really amazing thing. it's the idea of permission-less innovation. the internet caused an explosion of innovation, because it was built upon an open architecture. and just like the internet changed the way we communicate, programmable money is going to change the way we pay, allocate and decide on value.so what kind of world does programmable money create? imagine a world where i can rent out my healthcare data to a pharmaceutical company. they can run large-scale data analysis and provide me with a cryptographic proof that shows they're only using my data in a way that we agreed. and they can pay me for what they find out. instead of signing up for streaming services and getting a cable bill, what if my television analyzed my watching habits and recommended well-priced content that fit within my budget that i would enjoy? imagine an internet without ads, because instead of paying with our attention when we view content, we just pay.interestingly, things like micro-payments are actually going to change the way security works in our world, because once we're better able to allocate value, people will use their money and their energies for more constructive things. if it cost a fraction of a cent to send an email, would we still have spam?we're not at this world yet, but it's coming. right now, it's like we're in a world that is seeing the first automobile. the first cryptocurrency, like the first car, is slow and hard to understand and hard to use. digital money, like the horse and carriage, works pretty well, and the whole world economy is built on it. if you were the first person on your block to get a car with an internal combustion engine, your neighbors would probably think you were crazy: "why would you want this large, clunky machine that breaks down all the time, that lights on fire, and is still slower than a horse?" but we all know how that story turns out.we're entering a new era of programmable money. and it's very exciting, but it's also a little bit scary. cryptocurrencies can be used for illegal transactions, just like cash is used for crime in the world today. when all of our transactions are online, what does that mean for surveillance — who can see what we do? who's advantaged in this new world and who isn't? will i have to start to pay for things that i didn't have to pay for before? will we all become slaves to algorithms and utility functions?all new technology comes with trade-offs. the internet brought us a lot of ways to waste time. but it also greatly increased productivity. mobile phones are annoying because they make me feel like i have to stay connected to work all the time. but they also help me stay connected to friends and family. the new sharing economy is going to eliminate some jobs. but it's also going to create new, flexible forms of employment. with programmable money, we decouple the need for large, trusted institutions from the architecture of the network. and this pushes innovation in money out to the edges, where it belongs. programmable money democratizes money. and because of this, things are going to change and unfold in ways that we can't even predict.thank you. <title = "How to raise successful kids -- without over-parenting">
<tags = "['children', 'education', 'family', 'goal-setting', 'happiness', 'identity', 'motivation', 'parenting', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'success', 'teaching']">
<occupation = "Academic, author">
you know, i didn't set out to be a parenting expert. in fact, i'm not very interested in parenting, per se. it's just that there's a certain style of parenting these days that is kind of messing up kids, impeding their chances to develop into theirselves. there's a certain style of parenting these days that's getting in the way.i guess what i'm saying is, we spend a lot of time being very concerned about parents who aren't involved enough in the lives of their kids and their education or their upbringing, and rightly so. but at the other end of the spectrum, there's a lot of harm going on there as well, where parents feel a kid can't be successful unless the parent is protecting and preventing at every turn and hovering over every happening, and micromanaging every moment, and steering their kid towards some small subset of colleges and careers.when we raise kids this way, and i'll say we, because lord knows, in raising my two teenagers, i've had these tendencies myself, our kids end up leading a kind of checklisted childhood.and here's what the checklisted childhood looks like. we keep them safe and sound and fed and watered, and then we want to be sure they go to the right schools, that they're in the right classes at the right schools, and that they get the right grades in the right classes in the right schools. but not just the grades, the scores, and not just the grades and scores, but the accolades and the awards and the sports, the activities, the leadership. we tell our kids, don't just join a club, start a club, because colleges want to see that. and check the box for community service. i mean, show the colleges you care about others. and all of this is done to some hoped-for degree of perfection. we expect our kids to perform at a level of perfection we were never asked to perform at ourselves, and so because so much is required, we think, well then, of course we parents have to argue with every teacher and principal and coach and referee and act like our kid's concierge and personal handler and secretary.and then with our kids, our precious kids, we spend so much time nudging, cajoling, hinting, helping, haggling, nagging as the case may be, to be sure they're not screwing up, not closing doors, not ruining their future, some hoped-for admission to a tiny handful of colleges that deny almost every applicant.and here's what it feels like to be a kid in this checklisted childhood. first of all, there's no time for free play. there's no room in the afternoons, because everything has to be enriching, we think. it's as if every piece of homework, every quiz, every activity is a make-or-break moment for this future we have in mind for them, and we absolve them of helping out around the house, and we even absolve them of getting enough sleep as long as they're checking off the items on their checklist. and in the checklisted childhood, we say we just want them to be happy, but when they come home from school, what we ask about all too often first is their homework and their grades. and they see in our faces that our approval, that our love, that their very worth, comes from a's. and then we walk alongside them and offer clucking praise like a trainer at the westminster dog show — coaxing them to just jump a little higher and soar a little farther, day after day after day. and when they get to high school, they don't say, "well, what might i be interested in studying or doing as an activity?" they go to counselors and they say, "what do i need to do to get into the right college?" and then, when the grades start to roll in in high school, and they're getting some b's, or god forbid some c's, they frantically text their friends and say, "has anyone ever gotten into the right college with these grades?"and our kids, regardless of where they end up at the end of high school, they're breathless. they're brittle. they're a little burned out. they're a little old before their time, wishing the grown-ups in their lives had said, "what you've done is enough, this effort you've put forth in childhood is enough." and they're withering now under high rates of anxiety and depression and some of them are wondering, will this life ever turn out to have been worth it?well, we parents, we parents are pretty sure it's all worth it. we seem to behave — it's like we literally think they will have no future if they don't get into one of these tiny set of colleges or careers we have in mind for them.or maybe, maybe, we're just afraid they won't have a future we can brag about to our friends and with stickers on the backs of our cars. yeah. but if you look at what we've done, if you have the courage to really look at it, you'll see that not only do our kids think their worth comes from grades and scores, but that when we live right up inside their precious developing minds all the time, like our very own version of the movie "being john malkovich," we send our children the message: "hey kid, i don't think you can actually achieve any of this without me." and so with our overhelp, our overprotection and overdirection and hand-holding, we deprive our kids of the chance to build self-efficacy, which is a really fundamental tenet of the human psyche, far more important than that self-esteem they get every time we applaud. self-efficacy is built when one sees that one's own actions lead to outcomes, not — there you go. not one's parents' actions on one's behalf, but when one's own actions lead to outcomes. so simply put, if our children are to develop self-efficacy, and they must, then they have to do a whole lot more of the thinking, planning, deciding, doing, hoping, coping, trial and error, dreaming and experiencing of life for themselves.now, am i saying every kid is hard-working and motivated and doesn't need a parent's involvement or interest in their lives, and we should just back off and let go? hell no. that is not what i'm saying. what i'm saying is, when we treat grades and scores and accolades and awards as the purpose of childhood, all in furtherance of some hoped-for admission to a tiny number of colleges or entrance to a small number of careers, that that's too narrow a definition of success for our kids. and even though we might help them achieve some short-term wins by overhelping — like they get a better grade if we help them do their homework, they might end up with a longer childhood résumé when we help — what i'm saying is that all of this comes at a long-term cost to their sense of self. what i'm saying is, we should be less concerned with the specific set of colleges they might be able to apply to or might get into and far more concerned that they have the habits, the mindset, the skill set, the wellness, to be successful wherever they go. what i'm saying is, our kids need us to be a little less obsessed with grades and scores and a whole lot more interested in childhood providing a foundation for their success built on things like love and chores. did i just say chores? did i just say chores? i really did. but really, here's why. the longest longitudinal study of humans ever conducted is called the harvard grant study. it found that professional success in life, which is what we want for our kids, that professional success in life comes from having done chores as a kid, and the earlier you started, the better, that a roll-up-your-sleeves- and-pitch-in mindset, a mindset that says, there's some unpleasant work, someone's got to do it, it might as well be me, a mindset that says, i will contribute my effort to the betterment of the whole, that that's what gets you ahead in the workplace. now, we all know this. you know this. we all know this, and yet, in the checklisted childhood, we absolve our kids of doing the work of chores around the house, and then they end up as young adults in the workplace still waiting for a checklist, but it doesn't exist, and more importantly, lacking the impulse, the instinct to roll up their sleeves and pitch in and look around and wonder, how can i be useful to my colleagues? how can i anticipate a few steps ahead to what my boss might need?a second very important finding from the harvard grant study said that happiness in life comes from love, not love of work, love of humans: our spouse, our partner, our friends, our family. so childhood needs to teach our kids how to love, and they can't love others if they don't first love themselves, and they won't love themselves if we can't offer them unconditional love. right. and so, instead of being obsessed with grades and scores when our precious offspring come home from school, or we come home from work, we need to close our technology, put away our phones, and look them in the eye and let them see the joy that fills our faces when we see our child for the first time in a few hours. and then we have to say, "how was your day? what did you like about today?" and when your teenage daughter says, "lunch," like mine did, and i want to hear about the math test, not lunch, you have to still take an interest in lunch. you gotta say, "what was great about lunch today?" they need to know they matter to us as humans, not because of their gpa.all right, so you're thinking, chores and love, that sounds all well and good, but give me a break. the colleges want to see top scores and grades and accolades and awards, and i'm going to tell you, sort of. the very biggest brand-name schools are asking that of our young adults, but here's the good news. contrary to what the college rankings racket would have us believe — you don't have to go to one of the biggest brand name schools to be happy and successful in life. happy and successful people went to state school, went to a small college no one has heard of, went to community college, went to a college over here and flunked out. the evidence is in this room, is in our communities, that this is the truth. and if we could widen our blinders and be willing to look at a few more colleges, maybe remove our own egos from the equation, we could accept and embrace this truth and then realize, it is hardly the end of the world if our kids don't go to one of those big brand-name schools. and more importantly, if their childhood has not been lived according to a tyrannical checklist then when they get to college, whichever one it is, well, they'll have gone there on their own volition, fueled by their own desire, capable and ready to thrive there.i have to admit something to you. i've got two kids i mentioned, sawyer and avery. they're teenagers. and once upon a time, i think i was treating my sawyer and avery like little bonsai trees — that i was going to carefully clip and prune and shape into some perfect form of a human that might just be perfect enough to warrant them admission to one of the most highly selective colleges. but i've come to realize, after working with thousands of other people's kids — and raising two kids of my own, my kids aren't bonsai trees. they're wildflowers of an unknown genus and species — and it's my job to provide a nourishing environment, to strengthen them through chores and to love them so they can love others and receive love and the college, the major, the career, that's up to them. my job is not to make them become what i would have them become, but to support them in becoming their glorious selves.thank you. <title = "How fear of nuclear power is hurting the environment">
<tags = "['Natural resources', 'activism', 'alternative energy', 'climate change', 'energy', 'environment', 'fear', 'global development', 'global issues', 'government', 'green', 'infrastructure', 'innovation', 'investment', 'nuclear energy', 'nuclear weapons', 'policy', 'pollution', 'social change', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Climate policy expert">
have you heard the news? we're in a clean energy revolution. and where i live in berkeley, california, it seems like every day i see a new roof with new solar panels going up, electric car in the driveway. germany sometimes gets half its power from solar, and india is now committed to building 10 times more solar than we have in california, by the year 2022.even nuclear seems to be making a comeback. bill gates is in china working with engineers, there's 40 different companies that are working together to try to race to build the first reactor that runs on waste, that can't melt down and is cheaper than coal. and so you might start to ask: is this whole global warming problem going to be a lot easier to solve than anybody imagined? that was the question we wanted to know, so my colleagues and i decided to take a deep dive into the data. we were a little skeptical of some parts of the clean energy revolution story, but what we found really surprised us.the first thing is that clean energy has been increasing. this is electricity from clean energy sources over the last 20 years. but when you look at the percentage of global electricity from clean energy sources, it's actually been in decline from 36 percent to 31 percent. and if you care about climate change, you've got to go in the opposite direction to 100 percent of our electricity from clean energy sources, as quickly as possible. now, you might wonder, "come on, how much could five percentage points of global electricity be?" well, it turns out to be quite a bit. it's the equivalent of 60 nuclear plants the size of diablo canyon, california's last nuclear plant, or 900 solar farms the size of topaz, which is one of the biggest solar farms in the world, and certainly our biggest in california. a big part of this is simply that fossil fuels are increasing faster than clean energy. and that's understandable. there's just a lot of poor countries that are still using wood and dung and charcoal as their main source of energy, and they need modern fuels.but there's something else going on, which is that one of those clean energy sources in particular has actually been on the decline in absolute terms, not just relatively. and that's nuclear. you can see its generation has declined seven percent over the last 10 years. now, solar and wind have been making huge strides, so you hear a lot of talk about how it doesn't really matter, because solar and wind is going to make up the difference. but the data says something different. when you combine all the electricity from solar and wind, you see it actually barely makes up half of the decline from nuclear. let's take a closer look in the united states.over the last couple of years — really 2013, 2014 — we prematurely retired four nuclear power plants. they were almost entirely replaced with fossil fuels, and so the consequence was that we wiped out almost as much clean energy electricity that we get from solar. and it's not unique to us. people think of california as a clean energy and climate leader, but when we looked at the data, what we found is that, in fact, california reduced emissions more slowly than the national average, between 2000 and 2015.what about germany? they're doing a lot of clean energy. but when you look at the data, german emissions have actually been going up since 2009, and there's really not anybody who's going to tell you that they're going to meet their climate commitments in 2020.the reason isn't hard to understand. solar and wind provide power about 10 to 20 percent of the time, which means that when the sun's not shining, the wind's not blowing, you still need power for your hospitals, your homes, your cities, your factories. and while batteries have made some really cool improvements lately, the truth is, they're just never going to be as efficient as the electrical grid. every time you put electricity into a battery and take it out, you lose about 20 to 40 percent of the power. that's why when, in california, we try to deal with all the solar we've brought online — we now get about 10 percent of electricity from solar — when the sun goes down, and people come home from work and turn on their air conditioners and their tv sets, and every other appliance in the house, we need a lot of natural gas backup. so what we've been doing is stuffing a lot of natural gas into the side of a mountain. and that worked pretty well for a while, but then late last year, it sprung a leak. this is aliso canyon. so much methane gas was released, it was the equivalent of putting half a million cars on the road. it basically blew through all of our climate commitments for the year.well, what about india? sometimes you have to go places to really get the right data, so we traveled to india a few months ago. we met with all the top officials — solar, nuclear, the rest — and what they told us is, "we're actually having more serious problems than both germany and california. we don't have backup; we don't have all the natural gas. and that's just the start of it. say we want to get to 100 gigawatts by 2022. but last year we did just five, and the year before that, we did five."so, let's just take a closer look at nuclear. the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change has looked at the carbon content of all these different fuels, and nuclear comes out really low — it's actually lower even than solar. and nuclear obviously provides a lot of power — 24 hours a day, seven days a week. during a year, a single plant can provide power 92 percent of the time. what's interesting is that when you look at countries that have deployed different kinds of clean energies, there's only a few that have done so at a pace consistent with dealing with the climate crisis.so nuclear seems like a pretty good option, but there's this big problem with it, which all of you, i'm sure, are aware of, which is that people really don't like it. there was a study, a survey done of people around the world, not just in the united states or europe, about a year and a half ago. and what they found is that nuclear is actually one of the least popular forms of energy. even oil is more popular than nuclear. and while nuclear kind of edges out coal, the thing is, people don't really fear coal in the same way they fear nuclear, which really operates on our unconscious.so what is it that we fear? there's really three things. there's the safety of the plants themselves — the fears that they're going to melt down and cause damage; there's the waste from them; and there's the association with weapons. and i think, understandably, engineers look at those concerns and look for technological fixes. that's why bill gates is in china developing advanced reactors. that's why 40 different entrepreneurs are working on this problem. and i, myself, have been very excited about it.we did a report: "how to make nuclear cheap." in particular, the thorium reactor shows a lot of promise. so when the climate scientist, james hansen, asked if i wanted to go to china with him and look at the chinese advanced nuclear program, i jumped at the chance. we were there with mit and uc berkeley engineers. and i had in my mind that the chinese would be able to do with nuclear what they did with so many other things — start to crank out small nuclear reactors on assembly lines, ship them up like iphones or macbooks and send them around the world. i would get one at home in berkeley. but what i found was somewhat different. the presentations were all very exciting and very promising; they have multiple reactors that they're working on. the time came for the thorium reactor, and a bunch of us were excited. they went through the whole presentation, they got to the timeline, and they said, "we're going to have a thorium molten salt reactor ready for sale to the world by 2040." and i was like, "what?" i looked at my colleagues and i was like, "excuse me — can you guys speed that up a little bit? because we're in a little bit of a climate crisis right now. and your cities are really polluted, by the way." and they responded back, they were like, "i'm not sure what you've heard about our thorium program, but we don't have a third of our budget, and your department of energy hasn't been particularly forthcoming with all that data you guys have on testing reactors." and i said, "well, i've got an idea. you know how you've got 10 years where you're demonstrating that reactor? let's just skip that part, and let's just go right to commercializing it. that will save money and time." and the engineer just looked at me and said, "let me ask you a question: would you buy a car that had never been demonstrated before?"so what about the other reactors? there's a reactor that's coming online now, they're starting to sell it. it's a high-temperature gas reactor. it can't melt down. but it's really big and bulky, that's part of the safety, and nobody thinks it's going to ever get cheaper than the reactors that we have. the ones that use waste as fuel are really cool ideas, but the truth is, we don't actually know how to do that yet. there's some risk that you'll actually make more waste, and most people think that if you're including that waste part of the process, it's just going to make the whole machine a lot more expensive, it's just adding another complicated step.the truth is, there's real questions about how much of that we're going to do. i mean, we went to india and asked about the nuclear program. the government said before the paris climate talks that they were going to do something like 30 new nuclear plants. but when we got there and interviewed people and even looked at the internal documents, they're now saying they're going to do about five. and in most of the world, especially the rich world, they're not talking about building new reactors. we're actually talking about taking reactors down before their lifetimes are over. germany's actually pressuring its neighbors to do that. i mentioned the united states — we could lose half of our reactors over the next 15 years, which would wipe out 40 percent of the emissions reductions we're supposed to get under the clean power plan. of course, in japan, they took all their nuclear plants offline, replaced them with coal, natural gas, oil burning, and they're only expected to bring online about a third to two-thirds.so when we went through the numbers, and just added that up — how much nuclear do we see china and india bringing online over the next 15 years, how much do we see at risk of being taken offline — this was the most startling finding. what we found is that the world is actually at risk of losing four times more clean energy than we lost over the last 10 years. in other words: we're not in a clean energy revolution; we're in a clean energy crisis. so it's understandable that engineers would look for a technical fix to the fears that people have of nuclear. but when you consider that these are big challenges to do, that they're going to take a long time to solve, there's this other issue, which is: are those technical fixes really going to solve people's fears?let's take safety. you know, despite what people think, it's hard to figure out how to make nuclear power much safer. i mean, every medical journal that looks at it — this is the most recent study from the british journal, "lancet," one of the most respected journals in the world — nuclear is the safest way to make reliable power. everybody's scared of the accidents. so you go look at the accident data — fukushima, chernobyl — the world health organization finds the same thing: the vast majority of harm is caused by people panicking, and they're panicking because they're afraid. in other words, the harm that's caused isn't actually caused by the machines or the radiation. it's caused by our fears.and what about the waste? everyone worries about the waste. well, the interesting thing about the waste is how little of it there is. this is just from one plant. if you take all the nuclear waste we've ever made in the united states, put it on a football field, stacked it up, it would only reach 20 feet high. and people say it's poisoning people or doing something — it's not, it's just sitting there, it's just being monitored. there's not very much of it. by contrast, the waste that we don't control from energy production — we call it "pollution," and it kills seven million people a year, and it's threatening very serious levels of global warming. and the truth is that even if we get good at using that waste as fuel, there's always going to be some fuel left over. that means there's always going to be people that think it's a big problem for reasons that maybe don't have as much to do with the actual waste as we think.well, what about the weapons? maybe the most surprising thing is that we can't find any examples of countries that have nuclear power and then, "oh!" decide to go get a weapon. in fact, it works the opposite. what we find is the only way we know how to get rid large numbers of nuclear weapons is by using the plutonium in the warheads as fuel in our nuclear power plants. and so, if you are wanting to get the world rid of nuclear weapons, then we're going to need a lot more nuclear power. as i was leaving china, the engineer that brought bill gates there kind of pulled me aside, and he said, "you know, michael, i appreciate your interest in all the different nuclear supply technologies, but there's this more basic issue, which is that there's just not enough global demand. i mean, we can crank out these machines on assembly lines, we do know how to make things cheap, but there's just not enough people that want them."and so, let's do solar and wind and efficiency and conservation. let's accelerate the advanced nuclear programs. i think we should triple the amount of money we're spending on it. but i just think the most important thing, if we're going to overcome the climate crisis, is to keep in mind that the cause of the clean energy crisis isn't from within our machines, it's from within ourselves.thank you very much. <title = "Architecture that's built to heal">
<tags = "['Africa', 'United States', 'architecture', 'beauty', 'collaboration', 'community', 'design', 'engineering', 'health care', 'humanity', 'inequality', 'materials', 'public health', 'public spaces', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Designer">
every weekend for as long as i can remember, my father would get up on a saturday, put on a worn sweatshirt and he'd scrape away at the squeaky old wheel of a house that we lived in. i wouldn't even call it restoration; it was a ritual, catharsis. he would spend all year scraping paint with this old heat gun and a spackle knife, and then he would repaint where he scraped, only to begin again the following year. scraping and re-scraping, painting and repainting: the work of an old house is never meant to be done.the day my father turned 52, i got a phone call. my mother was on the line to tell me that doctors had found a lump in his stomach — terminal cancer, she told me, and he had been given only three weeks to live.i immediately moved home to poughkeepsie, new york, to sit with my father on death watch, not knowing what the next days would bring us. to keep myself distracted, i rolled up my sleeves, and i went about finishing what he could now no longer complete — the restoration of our old home.when that looming three-week deadline came and then went, he was still alive. and at three months, he joined me. we gutted and repainted the interior. at six months, the old windows were refinished, and at 18 months, the rotted porch was finally replaced.and there was my father, standing with me outside, admiring a day's work, hair on his head, fully in remission, when he turned to me and he said, "you know, michael, this house saved my life."so the following year, i decided to go to architecture school. but there, i learned something different about buildings. recognition seemed to come to those who prioritized novel and sculptural forms, like ribbons, or ... pickles? and i think this is supposed to be a snail.something about this bothered me. why was it that the best architects, the greatest architecture — all beautiful and visionary and innovative — is also so rare, and seems to serve so very few? and more to the point: with all of this creative talent, what more could we do?just as i was about to start my final exams, i decided to take a break from an all-nighter and go to a lecture by dr. paul farmer, a leading health activist for the global poor. i was surprised to hear a doctor talking about architecture. buildings are making people sicker, he said, and for the poorest in the world, this is causing epidemic-level problems. in this hospital in south africa, patients that came in with, say, a broken leg, to wait in this unventilated hallway, walked out with a multidrug-resistant strand of tuberculosis. simple designs for infection control had not been thought about, and people had died because of it."where are the architects?" paul said. if hospitals are making people sicker, where are the architects and designers to help us build and design hospitals that allow us to heal?that following summer, i was in the back of a land rover with a few classmates, bumping over the mountainous hillside of rwanda. for the next year, i'd be living in butaro in this old guesthouse, which was a jail after the genocide. i was there to design and build a new type of hospital with dr. farmer and his team. if hallways are making patients sicker, what if we could design a hospital that flips the hallways on the outside, and makes people walk in the exterior? if mechanical systems rarely work, what if we could design a hospital that could breathe through natural ventilation, and meanwhile reduce its environmental footprint?and what about the patients' experience? evidence shows that a simple view of nature can radically improve health outcomes, so why couldn't we design a hospital where every patient had a window with a view? simple, site-specific designs can make a hospital that heals.designing it is one thing; getting it built, we learned, is quite another.we worked with bruce nizeye, a brilliant engineer, and he thought about construction differently than i had been taught in school. when we had to excavate this enormous hilltop and a bulldozer was expensive and hard to get to site, bruce suggested doing it by hand, using a method in rwanda called "ubudehe," which means "community works for the community." hundreds of people came with shovels and hoes, and we excavated that hill in half the time and half the cost of that bulldozer. instead of importing furniture, bruce started a guild, and he brought in master carpenters to train others in how to make furniture by hand. and on this job site, 15 years after the rwandan genocide, bruce insisted that we bring on labor from all backgrounds, and that half of them be women.bruce was using the process of building to heal, not just for those who were sick, but for the entire community as a whole. we call this the locally fabricated way of building, or "lo-fab," and it has four pillars: hire locally, source regionally, train where you can and most importantly, think about every design decision as an opportunity to invest in the dignity of the places where you serve. think of it like the local food movement, but for architecture. and we're convinced that this way of building can be replicated across the world, and change the way we talk about and evaluate architecture.using the lo-fab way of building, even aesthetic decisions can be designed to impact people's lives. in butaro, we chose to use a local volcanic stone found in abundance within the area, but often considered a nuisance by farmers, and piled on the side of the road. we worked with these masons to cut these stones and form them into the walls of the hospital. and when they began on this corner and wrapped around the entire hospital, they were so good at putting these stones together, they asked us if they could take down the original wall and rebuild it. and you see what is possible. it's beautiful. and the beauty, to me, comes from the fact that i know that hands cut these stones, and they formed them into this thick wall, made only in this place with rocks from this soil.when you go outside today and you look at your built world, ask not only: "what is the environmental footprint?" — an important question — but what if we also asked, "what is the human handprint of those who made it?"we started a new practice based around these questions, and we tested it around the world. like in haiti, where we asked if a new hospital could help end the epidemic of cholera. in this 100-bed hospital, we designed a simple strategy to clean contaminated medical waste before it enters the water table, and our partners at les centres gheskio are already saving lives because of it.or malawi: we asked if a birthing center could radically reduce maternal and infant mortality. malawi has one of the highest rates of maternal and infant death in the world. using a simple strategy to be replicated nationally, we designed a birthing center that would attract women and their attendants to come to the hospital earlier and therefore have safer births.or in the congo, where we asked if an educational center could also be used to protect endangered wildlife. poaching for ivory and bushmeat is leading to global epidemic, disease transfer and war. in one of the hardest-to-reach places in the world, we used the mud and the dirt and the wood around us to construct a center that would show us ways to protect and conserve our rich biodiversity.even here in the us, we were asked to rethink the largest university for the deaf and hard of hearing in the world. the deaf community, through sign language, shows us the power of visual communication. we designed a campus that would awaken the ways in which we as humans all communicate, both verbally and nonverbally.and even in poughkeepsie, my hometown, we thought about old industrial infrastructure. we wondered: could we use arts and culture and design to revitalize this city and other rust belt cities across our nation, and turn them into centers for innovation and growth? in each of these projects, we asked a simple question: what more can architecture do? and by asking that question, we were forced to consider how we could create jobs, how we could source regionally and how we could invest in the dignity of the communities in which we serve.i have learned that architecture can be a transformative engine for change.about a year ago, i read an article about a tireless and intrepid civil rights leader named bryan stevenson. and bryan had a bold architectural vision. he and his team had been documenting the over 4,000 lynchings of african-americans that have happened in the american south. and they had a plan to mark every county where these lynchings occurred, and build a national memorial to the victims of lynching in montgomery, alabama.countries like germany and south africa and, of course, rwanda, have found it necessary to build memorials to reflect on the atrocities of their past, in order to heal their national psyche. we have yet to do this in the united states.so i sent a cold email to info@equaljusticeintiative.org: "dear bryan," it said, "i think your building project is maybe the most important project we could do in america and could change the way we think about racial injustice. by any chance, do you know who will design it?" surprisingly, shockingly, bryan got right back to me, and invited me down to meet with his team and talk to them. needless to say, i canceled all my meetings and i jumped on a plane to montgomery, alabama. when i got there, bryan and his team picked me up, and we walked around the city. and they took the time to point out the many markers that have been placed all over the city to the history of the confederacy, and the very few that mark the history of slavery.and then he walked me to a hill. it overlooked the whole city. he pointed out the river and the train tracks where the largest domestic slave-trading port in america had once prospered. and then to the capitol rotunda, where george wallace had stood on its steps and proclaimed, "segregation forever." and then to the very hill below us. he said, "here we will build a new memorial that will change the identity of this city and of this nation."our two teams have worked together over the last year to design this memorial. the memorial will take us on a journey through a classical, almost familiar building type, like the parthenon or the colonnade at the vatican. but as we enter, the ground drops below us and our perception shifts, where we realize that these columns evoke the lynchings, which happened in the public square. and as we continue, we begin to understand the vast number of those who have yet to be put to rest. their names will be engraved on the markers that hang above us. and just outside will be a field of identical columns. but these are temporary columns, waiting in purgatory, to be placed in the very counties where these lynchings occurred. over the next few years, this site will bear witness, as each of these markers is claimed and visibly placed in those counties. our nation will begin to heal from over a century of silence.when we think about how it should be built, we were reminded of ubudehe, the building process we learned about in rwanda. we wondered if we could fill those very columns with the soil from the sites of where these killings occurred. brian and his team have begun collecting that soil and preserving it in individual jars with family members, community leaders and descendants. the act of collecting soil itself has lead to a type of spiritual healing. it's an act of restorative justice.as one eji team member noted in the collection of the soil from where will mcbride was lynched, "if will mcbride left one drop of sweat, one drop of blood, one hair follicle — i pray that i dug it up, and that his whole body would be at peace."we plan to break ground on this memorial later this year, and it will be a place to finally speak of the unspeakable acts that have scarred this nation. when my father told me that day that this house — our house — had saved his life, what i didn't know was that he was referring to a much deeper relationship between architecture and ourselves. buildings are not simply expressive sculptures. they make visible our personal and our collective aspirations as a society. great architecture can give us hope. great architecture can heal.thank you very much. <title = "Why some people are more altruistic than others">
<tags = "['brain', 'cognitive science', 'communication', 'community', 'empathy', 'fear', 'humanity', 'mental health', 'personality', 'science', 'self']">
<occupation = "Psychologist">
there's a man out there, somewhere, who looks a little bit like the actor idris elba, or at least he did 20 years ago. i don't know anything else about him, except that he once saved my life by putting his own life in danger. this man ran across four lanes of freeway traffic in the middle of the night to bring me back to safety after a car accident that could have killed me. and the whole thing left me really shaken up, obviously, but it also left me with this kind of burning, gnawing need to understand why he did it, what forces within him caused him to make the choice that i owe my life to, to risk his own life to save the life of a stranger? in other words, what are the causes of his or anybody else's capacity for altruism?but first let me tell you what happened. that night, i was 19 years old and driving back to my home in tacoma, washington, down the interstate 5 freeway, when a little dog darted out in front of my car. and i did exactly what you're not supposed to do, which is swerve to avoid it. and i discovered why you're not supposed to do that. i hit the dog anyways, and that sent the car into a fishtail, and then a spin across the freeway, until finally it wound up in the fast lane of the freeway faced backwards into oncoming traffic and then the engine died. and i was sure in that moment that i was about to die too, but i didn't because of the actions of that one brave man who must have made the decision within a fraction of a second of seeing my stranded car to pull over and run across four lanes of freeway traffic in the dark to save my life. and then after he got my car working again and got me back to safety and made sure i was going to be all right, he drove off again. he never even told me his name, and i'm pretty sure i forgot to say thank you.so before i go any further, i really want to take a moment to stop and say thank you to that stranger. i tell you all of this because the events of that night changed the course of my life to some degree. i became a psychology researcher, and i've devoted my work to understanding the human capacity to care for others. where does it come from, and how does it develop, and what are the extreme forms that it can take? these questions are really important to understanding basic aspects of human social nature. a lot of people, and this includes everybody from philosophers and economists to ordinary people believe that human nature is fundamentally selfish, that we're only ever really motivated by our own welfare. but if that's true, why do some people, like the stranger who rescued me, do selfless things, like helping other people at enormous risk and cost to themselves? answering this question requires exploring the roots of extraordinary acts of altruism, and what might make people who engage in such acts different than other people. but until recently, very little work on this topic had been done.the actions of the man who rescued me meet the most stringent definition of altruism, which is a voluntary, costly behavior motivated by the desire to help another individual. so it's a selfless act intended to benefit only the other. what could possibly explain an action like that? one answer is compassion, obviously, which is a key driver of altruism. but then the question becomes, why do some people seem to have more of it than others? and the answer may be that the brains of highly altruistic people are different in fundamental ways.but to figure out how, i actually started from the opposite end, with psychopaths. a common approach to understanding basic aspects of human nature, like the desire to help other people, is to study people in whom that desire is missing, and psychopaths are exactly such a group. psychopathy is a developmental disorder with strongly genetic origins, and it results in a personality that's cold and uncaring and a tendency to engage in antisocial and sometimes very violent behavior. once my colleagues and i at the national institute of mental health conducted some of the first ever brain imaging research of psychopathic adolescents, and our findings, and the findings of other researchers now, have shown that people who are psychopathic pretty reliably exhibit three characteristics. first, although they're not generally insensitive to other people's emotions, they are insensitive to signs that other people are in distress. and in particular, they have difficulty recognizing fearful facial expressions like this one. and fearful expressions convey urgent need and emotional distress, and they usually elicit compassion and a desire to help in people who see them, so it makes sense that people who tend to lack compassion also tend to be insensitive to these cues.the part of the brain that's the most important for recognizing fearful expressions is called the amygdala. there are very rare cases of people who lack amygdalas completely, and they're profoundly impaired in recognizing fearful expressions. and whereas healthy adults and children usually show big spikes in amygdala activity when they look at fearful expressions, psychopaths' amygdalas are underreactive to these expressions. sometimes they don't react at all, which may be why they have trouble detecting these cues. finally, psychopaths' amygdalas are smaller than average by about 18 or 20 percent.so all of these findings are reliable and robust, and they're very interesting. but remember that my main interest is not understanding why people don't care about others. it's understanding why they do. so the real question is, could extraordinary altruism, which is the opposite of psychopathy in terms of compassion and the desire to help other people, emerge from a brain that is also the opposite of psychopathy? a sort of antipsychopathic brain, better able to recognize other people's fear, an amygdala that's more reactive to this expression and maybe larger than average as well?as my research has now shown, all three things are true. and we discovered this by testing a population of truly extraordinary altruists. these are people who have given one of their own kidneys to a complete stranger. so these are people who have volunteered to undergo major surgery so that one of their own healthy kidneys can be removed and transplanted into a very ill stranger that they've never met and may never meet. "why would anybody do this?" is a very common question. and the answer may be that the brains of these extraordinary altruists have certain special characteristics. they are better at recognizing other people's fear. they're literally better at detecting when somebody else is in distress. this may be in part because their amygdala is more reactive to these expressions. and remember, this is the same part of the brain that we found was underreactive in people who are psychopathic. and finally, their amygdalas are larger than average as well, by about eight percent. so together, what these data suggest is the existence of something like a caring continuum in the world that's anchored at the one end by people who are highly psychopathic, and at the other by people who are very compassionate and driven to acts of extreme altruism.but i should add that what makes extraordinary altruists so different is not just that they're more compassionate than average. they are, but what's even more unusual about them is that they're compassionate and altruistic not just towards people who are in their own innermost circle of friends and family. right? because to have compassion for people that you love and identify with is not extraordinary. truly extraordinary altruists' compassion extends way beyond that circle, even beyond their wider circle of acquaintances to people who are outside their social circle altogether, total strangers, just like the man who rescued me.and i've had the opportunity now to ask a lot of altruistic kidney donors how it is that they manage to generate such a wide circle of compassion that they were willing to give a complete stranger their kidney. and i found it's a really difficult question for them to answer.i say, "how is it that you're willing to do this thing when so many other people don't? you're one of fewer than 2,000 americans who has ever given a kidney to a stranger. what is it that makes you so special?"and what do they say?they say, "nothing. there's nothing special about me. i'm just the same as everybody else."and i think that's actually a really telling answer, because it suggests that the circles of these altruists don't look like this, they look more like this. they have no center. these altruists literally don't think of themselves as being at the center of anything, as being better or more inherently important than anybody else. when i asked one altruist why donating her kidney made sense to her, she said, "because it's not about me." another said, "i'm not different. i'm not unique. your study here is going to find out that i'm just the same as you."i think the best description for this amazing lack of self-centeredness is humility, which is that quality that in the words of st. augustine makes men as angels. and why is that? it's because if there's no center of your circle, there can be no inner rings or outer rings, nobody who is more or less worthy of your care and compassion than anybody else. and i think that this is what really distinguishes extraordinary altruists from the average person.but i also think that this is a view of the world that's attainable by many and maybe even most people. and i think this because at the societal level, expansions of altruism and compassion are already happening everywhere. the psychologist steven pinker and others have shown that all around the world people are becoming less and less accepting of suffering in ever-widening circles of others, which has led to declines of all kinds of cruelty and violence, from animal abuse to domestic violence to capital punishment. and it's led to increases in all kinds of altruism. a hundred years ago, people would have thought it was ludicrous how normal and ordinary it is for people to donate their blood and bone marrow to complete strangers today. is it possible that a hundred years from now people will think that donating a kidney to a stranger is just as normal and ordinary as we think donating blood and bone marrow is today? maybe.so what's at the root of all these amazing changes? in part it seems to be increases in wealth and standards of living. as societies become wealthier and better off, people seem to turn their focus of attention outward, and as a result, all kinds of altruism towards strangers increases, from volunteering to charitable donations and even altruistic kidney donations. but all of these changes also yield a strange and paradoxical result, which is that even as the world is becoming a better and more humane place, which it is, there's a very common perception that it's becoming worse and more cruel, which it's not. and i don't know exactly why this is, but i think it may be that we now just know so much more about the suffering of strangers in distant places, and so we now care a lot more about the suffering of those distant strangers. but what's clear is the kinds of changes we're seeing show that the roots of altruism and compassion are just as much a part of human nature as cruelty and violence, maybe even more so, and while some people do seem to be inherently more sensitive to the suffering of distant others, i really believe that the ability to remove oneself from the center of the circle and expand the circle of compassion outward to include even strangers is within reach for almost everyone.thank you. <title = "There's no such thing as not voting">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'democracy', 'entertainment', 'government', 'history', 'identity', 'inequality', 'performance art', 'politics', 'society']">
<occupation = "Civics educator">
why bother? the game is rigged. my vote won't count. the choices are terrible. voting is for suckers.perhaps you've thought some of these things. perhaps you've even said them. and if so, you wouldn't be alone, and you wouldn't be entirely wrong. the game of public policy today is rigged in many ways. how else would more than half of federal tax breaks flow up to the wealthiest five percent of americans? and our choices indeed are often terrible. for many people across the political spectrum, exhibit a is the 2016 presidential election. but in any year, you can look up and down the ballot and find plenty to be uninspired about.but in spite of all this, i still believe voting matters. and crazy as it may sound, i believe we can revive the joy of voting. today, i want to talk about how we can do that, and why.there used to be a time in american history when voting was fun, when it was much more than just a grim duty to show up at the polls. that time is called "most of american history." from the revolution to the civil rights era, the united states had a vibrant, robustly participatory and raucous culture of voting. it was street theater, open-air debates, fasting and feasting and toasting, parades and bonfires. during the 19th century, immigrants and urban political machines helped fuel this culture of voting. that culture grew with each successive wave of new voters. during reconstruction, when new african-american voters, new african-american citizens, began to exercise their power, they celebrated in jubilee parades that connected emancipation with their newfound right to vote. a few decades later, the suffragettes brought a spirit of theatricality to their fight, marching together in white dresses as they claimed the franchise. and the civil rights movement, which sought to redeem the promise of equal citizenship that had been betrayed by jim crow, put voting right at the center. from freedom summer to the march in selma, that generation of activists knew that voting matters, and they knew that spectacle and the performance of power is key to actually claiming power.but it's been over a half century since selma and the voting rights act, and in the decades since, this face-to-face culture of voting has just about disappeared. it's been killed by television and then the internet. the couch has replaced the commons. screens have made citizens into spectators. and while it's nice to share political memes on social media, that's a rather quiet kind of citizenship. it's what the sociologist sherry turkle calls "being alone together."what we need today is an electoral culture that is about being together together, in person, in loud and passionate ways, so that instead of being "eat your vegetables" or "do you duty," voting can feel more like "join the club" or, better yet, "join the party."imagine if we had, across the country right now, in local places but nationwide, a concerted effort to revive a face-to-face set of ways to engage and electioneer: outdoor shows in which candidates and their causes are mocked and praised in broad satirical style; soapbox speeches by citizens; public debates held inside pubs; streets filled with political art and handmade posters and murals; battle of the band concerts in which competing performers rep their candidates. now, all of this may sound a little bit 18th century to you, but in fact, it doesn't have to be any more 18th century than, say, broadway's "hamilton," which is to say vibrantly contemporary.and the fact is that all around the world, today, millions of people are voting like this. in india, elections are colorful, communal affairs. in brazil, election day is a festive, carnival-type atmosphere. in taiwan and hong kong, there is a spectacle, eye-popping, eye-grabbing spectacle to the street theater of elections.you might ask, well, here in america, who has time for this? and i would tell you that the average american watches five hours of television a day. you might ask, who has the motivation? and i'll tell you, any citizen who wants to be seen and heard not as a prop, not as a talking point, but as a participant, as a creator.well, how do we make this happen? simply by making it happen.that's why a group of colleagues and i launched a new project called "the joy of voting." in four cities across the united states — philadelphia, miami, akron, ohio, and wichita, kansas — we've gathered together artists and activists, educators, political folks, neighbors, everyday citizens to come together and create projects that can foster this culture of voting in a local way.in miami, that means all-night parties with hot djs where the only way to get in is to show that you're registered to vote. in akron, it means political plays being performed in the bed of a flatbed truck that moves from neighborhood to neighborhood. in philadelphia, it's a voting-themed scavenger hunt all throughout colonial old town. and in wichita, it's making mixtapes and live graffiti art in the north end to get out the vote. there are 20 of these projects, and they are remarkable in their beauty and their diversity, and they are changing people. let me tell you about a couple of them.in miami, we've commissioned and artist, a young artist named atomico, to create some vivid and vibrant images for a new series of "i voted" stickers. but the thing is, atomico had never voted. he wasn't even registered. so as he got to work on creating this artwork for these stickers, he also began to get over his sense of intimidation about politics. he got himself registered, and then he got educated about the upcoming primary election, and on election day he was out there not just passing out stickers, but chatting up voters and encouraging people to vote, and talking about the election with passersby.in akron, a theater company called the wandering aesthetics has been putting on these pickup truck plays. and to do so, they put out an open call to the public asking for speeches, monologues, dialogues, poems, snippets of anything that could be read aloud and woven into a performance. they got dozens of submissions. one of them was a poem written by nine students in an esl class, all of them hispanic migrant workers from nearby hartville, ohio. i want to read to you from this poem. it's called "the joy of voting.""i would like to vote for the first time because things are changing for hispanics. i used to be afraid of ghosts. now i am afraid of people. there's more violence and racism. voting can change this. the border wall is nothing. it's just a wall. the wall of shame is something. it's very important to vote so we can break down this wall of shame. i have passion in my heart. voting gives me a voice and power. i can stand up and do something.""the joy of voting" project isn't just about joy. it's about this passion. it's about feeling and belief, and it isn't just our organization's work. all across this country right now, immigrants, young people, veterans, people of all different backgrounds are coming together to create this kind of passionate, joyful activity around elections, in red and blue states, in urban and rural communities, people of every political background. what they have in common is simply this: their work is rooted in place.because remember, all citizenship is local. when politics becomes just a presidential election, we yell and we scream at our screens, and then we collapse, exhausted. but when politics is about us and our neighbors and other people in our community coming together to create experiences of collective voice and imagination, then we begin to remember that this stuff matters. we begin to remember that this is the stuff of self-government.which brings me back to where i began. why bother? there's one way to answer this question. voting matters because it is a self-fulfilling act of belief. it feeds the spirit of mutual interest that makes any society thrive. when we vote, even if it is in anger, we are part of a collective, creative leap of faith. voting helps us generate the very power that we wish we had.it's no accident that democracy and theater emerged around the same time in ancient athens. both of them yank the individual out of the enclosure of her private self. both of them create great public experiences of shared ritual. both of them bring the imagination to life in ways that remind us that all of our bonds in the end are imagined, and can be reimagined.this moment right now, when we think about the meaning of imagination, is so fundamentally important, and our ability to take that spirit and to take that sense that there is something greater out there, is not just a matter of technical expertise. it's not just a matter of making the time or having the know-how. it is a matter of spirit.but let me give you an answer to this question, "why bother?" that is maybe a little less spiritual and a bit more pointed. why bother voting? because there is no such thing as not voting. not voting is voting, for everything that you may detest and oppose. not voting can be dressed up as an act of principled, passive resistance, but in fact not voting is actively handing power over to those whose interests are counter to your own, and those who would be very glad to take advantage of your absence. not voting is for suckers.imagine where this country would be if all the folks who in 2010 created the tea party had decided that, you know, politics is too messy, voting is too complicated. there is no possibility of our votes adding up to anything. they didn't preemptively silence themselves. they showed up, and in the course of showing up, they changed american politics. imagine if all of the followers of donald trump and bernie sanders had decided not to upend the political status quo and blow apart the frame of the previously possible in american politics. they did that by voting.we live in a time right now, divided, often very dark, where across the left and the right, there's a lot of talk of revolution and the need for revolution to disrupt everyday democracy. well, here's the thing: everyday democracy already gives us a playbook for revolution. in the 2012 presidential election, young voters, latino voters, asian-american voters, low-income voters, all showed up at less than 50 percent. in the 2014 midterm elections, turnout was 36 percent, which was a 70-year low. and in your average local election, turnout hovers somewhere around 20 percent.i invite you to imagine 100 percent. picture 100 percent. mobilize 100 percent, and overnight, we get revolution. overnight, the policy priorities of this country change dramatically, and every level of government becomes radically more responsive to all the people. what would it take to mobilize 100 percent? well, we do have to push back against efforts afoot all across the country right now to make voting harder. but at the same time, we have to actively create a positive culture of voting that people want to belong to, be part of, and experience together. we have to make purpose. we have to make joy.so yes, let's have that revolution, a revolution of spirit, of ideas, of policy and participation, a revolution against cynicism, a revolution against the self-fulfilling sense of powerlessness. let's vote this revolution into existence, and while we're at it, let's have some fun.thank you very much. <title = "Why you should know how much your coworkers get paid">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'business', 'economics', 'inequality', 'leadership', 'money', 'social change', 'society', 'women in business', 'work']">
<occupation = "Management researcher">
how much do you get paid? don't answer that out loud. but put a number in your head. now: how much do you think the person sitting next to you gets paid? again, don't answer out loud. at work, how much do you think the person sitting in the cubicle or the desk next to you gets paid? do you know? should you know?notice, it's a little uncomfortable for me to even ask you those questions. but admit it — you kind of want to know. most of us are uncomfortable with the idea of broadcasting our salary. we're not supposed to tell our neighbors, and we're definitely not supposed to tell our office neighbors. the assumed reason is that if everybody knew what everybody got paid, then all hell would break loose. there'd be arguments, there'd be fights, there might even be a few people who quit. but what if secrecy is actually the reason for all that strife? and what would happen if we removed that secrecy? what if openness actually increased the sense of fairness and collaboration inside a company? what would happen if we had total pay transparency?for the past several years, i've been studying the corporate and entrepreneurial leaders who question the conventional wisdom about how to run a company. and the question of pay keeps coming up. and the answers keep surprising.it turns out that pay transparency — sharing salaries openly across a company — makes for a better workplace for both the employee and for the organization. when people don't know how their pay compares to their peers', they're more likely to feel underpaid and maybe even discriminated against. do you want to work at a place that tolerates the idea that you feel underpaid or discriminated against? but keeping salaries secret does exactly that, and it's a practice as old as it is common, despite the fact that in the united states, the law protects an employee's right to discuss their pay.in one famous example from decades ago, the management of vanity fair magazine actually circulated a memo entitled: "forbidding discussion among employees of salary received." "forbidding" discussion among employees of salary received. now that memo didn't sit well with everybody. new york literary figures dorothy parker, robert benchley and robert sherwood, all writers in the algonquin round table, decided to stand up for transparency and showed up for work the next day with their salary written on signs hanging from their neck. imagine showing up for work with your salary just written across your chest for all to see.but why would a company even want to discourage salary discussions? why do some people go along with it, while others revolt against it? it turns out that in addition to the assumed reasons, pay secrecy is actually a way to save a lot of money. you see, keeping salaries secret leads to what economists call "information asymmetry." this is a situation where, in a negotiation, one party has loads more information than the other. and in hiring or promotion or annual raise discussions, an employer can use that secrecy to save a lot of money. imagine how much better you could negotiate for a raise if you knew everybody's salary.economists warn that information asymmetry can cause markets to go awry. someone leaves a pay stub on the copier, and suddenly everybody is shouting at each other. in fact, they even warn that information asymmetry can lead to a total market failure. and i think we're almost there. here's why: first, most employees have no idea how their pay compares to their peers'. in a 2015 survey of 70,000 employees, two-thirds of everyone who is paid at the market rate said that they felt they were underpaid. and of everybody who felt that they were underpaid, 60 percent said that they intended to quit, regardless of where they were — underpaid, overpaid or right at the market rate. if you were part of this survey, what would you say? are you underpaid? well, wait — how do you even know, because you're not allowed to talk about it?next, information asymmetry, pay secrecy, makes it easier to ignore the discrimination that's already present in the market today. in a 2011 report from the institute for women's policy research, the gender wage gap between men and women was 23 percent. this is where that 77 cents on the dollar comes from. but in the federal government, where salaries are pinned to certain levels and everybody knows what those levels are, the gender wage gap shrinks to 11 percent — and this is before controlling for any of the factors that economists argue over whether or not to control for.if we really want to close the gender wage gap, maybe we should start by opening up the payroll. if this is what total market failure looks like, then openness remains the only way to ensure fairness.now, i realize that letting people know what you make might feel uncomfortable, but isn't it less uncomfortable than always wondering if you're being discriminated against, or if your wife or your daughter or your sister is being paid unfairly? openness remains the best way to ensure fairness, and pay transparency does that.that's why entrepreneurial leaders and corporate leaders have been experimenting with sharing salaries for years. like dane atkinson. dane is a serial entrepreneur who started many companies in a pay secrecy condition and even used that condition to pay two equally qualified people dramatically different salaries, depending on how well they could negotiate. and dane saw the strife that happened as a result of this. so when he started his newest company, sumall, he committed to salary transparency from the beginning. and the results have been amazing. and in study after study, when people know how they're being paid and how that pay compares to their peers', they're more likely to work hard to improve their performance, more likely to be engaged, and they're less likely to quit.that's why dane's not alone. from technology start-ups like buffer, to the tens of thousands of employees at whole foods, where not only is your salary available for everyone to see, but the performance data for the store and for your department is available on the company intranet for all to see.now, pay transparency takes a lot of forms. it's not one size fits all. some post their salaries for all to see. some only keep it inside the company. some post the formula for calculating pay, and others post the pay levels and affix everybody to that level. so you don't have to make signs for all of your employees to wear around the office. and you don't have to be the only one wearing a sign that you made at home. but we can all take greater steps towards pay transparency. for those of you that have the authority to move forward towards transparency: it's time to move forward. and for those of you that don't have that authority: it's time to stand up for your right to.so how much do you get paid? and how does that compare to the people you work with? you should know. and so should they.thank you. <title = "Why open a school? To close a prison">
<tags = "['New York', 'children', 'community', 'compassion', 'education', 'future', 'identity', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'social change', 'society', 'teaching', 'urban', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Educator">
when i opened mott hall bridges academy in 2010, my goal was simple: open a school to close a prison. now to some, this was an audacious goal, because our school is located in the brownsville section of brooklyn — one of the most underserved and violent neighborhoods in all of new york city. like many urban schools with high poverty rates, we face numerous challenges, like finding teachers who can empathize with the complexities of a disadvantaged community, lack of funding for technology, low parental involvement and neighborhood gangs that recruit children as early as fourth grade.so here i was, the founding principal of a middle school that was a district public school, and i only had 45 kids to start. thirty percent of them had special needs. eighty-six percent of them were below grade level in english and in math. and 100 percent were living below the poverty level.if our children are not in our classrooms, how will they learn? and if they're not learning, where would they end up?it was evident when i would ask my 13-year-old, "young man, where do you see yourself in five years?"and his response: "i don't know if i'm gonna live that long."or to have a young woman say to me that she had a lifelong goal of working in a fast-food restaurant. to me, this was unacceptable. it was also evident that they had no idea that there was a landscape of opportunity that existed beyond their neighborhood.we call our students "scholars," because they're lifelong learners. and the skills that they learn today will prepare them for college and career readiness. i chose the royal colors of purple and black, because i want them to be reminded that they are descendants of greatness, and that through education, they are future engineers, scientists, entrepreneurs and even leaders who can and will take over this world. to date, we have had three graduating classes, at a 98 — at a 98-percent graduation rate. this is nearly 200 children, who are now going to some of the most competitive high schools in new york city. it was a cold day in january when my scholar, vidal chastanet, met brandon stanton, the founder of the popular blog "humans of new york." brandon shared the story of a young man from brownsville who had witnessed violence firsthand, by witnessing a man being thrown off of a roof. yet he can still be influenced by a principal who had opened up a school that believes in all children. vidal embodies the story of so many of our underprivileged children who are struggling to survive, which is why we must make education a priority.brandon's post created a global sensation that touched the lives of millions. this resulted in 1.4 million dollars being raised for our scholars to attend field trips to colleges and universities, summer steam programs, as well as college scholarships. you need to understand that when 200 young people from brownsville visited harvard, they now understood that a college of their choice was a real possibility. and the impossibilities that had been imposed upon them by a disadvantaged community were replaced by hope and purpose.the revolution in education is happening in our schools, with adults who provide love, structure, support and knowledge. these are the things that inspire children. but it is not an easy task. and there are high demands within an education system that is not perfect.but i have a dynamic group of educators who collaborate as a team to determine what is the best curriculum. they take time beyond their school day, and come in on weekends and even use their own money to often provide resources when we do not have it. and as the principal, i have to inspect what i expect.so i show up in classes and i conduct observations to give feedback, because i want my teachers to be just as successful as the name mott hall bridges academy. and i give them access to me every single day, which is why they all have my personal cell number, including my scholars and those who graduated — which is probably why i get phone calls and text messages at three o'clock in the morning. but we are all connected to succeed, and good leaders do this. tomorrow's future is sitting in our classrooms. and they are our responsibility. that means everyone in here, and those who are watching the screen. we must believe in their brilliance, and remind them by teaching them that there indeed is power in education.thank you. <title = "The era of personal DNA testing is here">
<tags = "['DNA', 'Vaccines', 'agriculture', 'biology', 'biotech', 'cancer', 'disease', 'farming', 'forensics', 'future', 'innovation', 'molecular biology', 'nature', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Biotech entrepreneur">
imagine that you're a pig farmer. you live on a small farm in the philippines. your animals are your family's sole source of income — as long as they're healthy. you know that any day, one of your pigs can catch the flu, the swine flu. living in tight quarters, one pig coughing and sneezing may soon lead to the next pig coughing and sneezing, until an outbreak of swine flu has taken over your farm. if it's a bad enough virus, the health of your herd may be gone in the blink of an eye. if you called in a veterinarian, he or she would visit your farm and take samples from your pigs' noses and mouths. but then they would have to drive back into the city to test those samples in their central lab. two weeks later, you'd hear back the results. two weeks may be just enough time for infection to spread and take away your way of life.but it doesn't have to be that way. today, farmers can take those samples themselves. they can jump right into the pen and swab their pigs' noses and mouths with a little filter paper, place that little filter paper in a tiny tube, and mix it with some chemicals that will extract genetic material from their pigs' noses and mouths. and without leaving their farms, they take a drop of that genetic material and put it into a little analyzer smaller than a shoebox, program it to detect dna or rna from the swine flu virus, and within one hour get back the results, visualize the results. this reality is possible because today we're living in the era of personal dna technology. every one of us can actually test dna ourselves.dna is the fundamental molecule the carries genetic instructions that help build the living world. humans have dna. pigs have dna. even bacteria and some viruses have dna too. the genetic instructions encoded in dna inform how our bodies develop, grow, function. and in many cases, that same information can trigger disease. your genetic information is strung into a long and twisted molecule, the dna double helix, that has over three billion letters, beginning to end. but the lines that carry meaningful information are usually very short — a few dozen to several thousand letters long. so when we're looking to answer a question based on dna, we actually don't need to read all those three billion letters, typically. that would be like getting hungry at night and having to flip through the whole phone book from cover to cover, pausing at every line, just to find the nearest pizza joint. luckily, three decades ago, humans started to invent tools that can find any specific line of genetic information. these dna machines are wonderful. they can find any line in dna. but once they find it, that dna is still tiny, and surrounded by so much other dna, that what these machines then do is copy the target gene, and one copy piles on top of another, millions and millions and millions of copies, until that gene stands out against the rest; until we can visualize it, interpret it, read it, understand it, until we can answer: does my pig have the flu? or other questions buried in our own dna: am i at risk of cancer? am i of irish descent? is that child my son? this ability to make copies of dna, as simple as it sounds, has transformed our world. scientists use it every day to detect and address disease, to create innovative medicines, to modify foods, to assess whether our food is safe to eat or whether it's contaminated with deadly bacteria. even judges use the output of these machines in court to decide whether someone is innocent or guilty based on dna evidence. the inventor of this dna-copying technique was awarded the nobel prize in chemistry in 1993. but for 30 years, the power of genetic analysis has been confined to the ivory tower, or bigwig phd scientist work. well, several companies around the world are working on making this same technology accessible to everyday people like the pig farmer, like you.i cofounded one of these companies. three years ago, together with a fellow biologist and friend of mine, zeke alvarez saavedra, we decided to make personal dna machines that anyone could use. our goal was to bring dna science to more people in new places. we started working in our basements. we had a simple question: what could the world look like if everyone could analyze dna? we were curious, as curious as you would have been if i had shown you this picture in 1980. you would have thought, "wow! i can now call my aunt glenda from the car and wish her a happy birthday. i can call anyone, anytime. this is the future!" little did you know, you would tap on that phone to make dinner reservations for you and aunt glenda to celebrate together. with another tap, you'd be ordering her gift. and yet one more tap, and you'd be "liking" auntie glenda on facebook. and all of this, while sitting on the toilet. it is notoriously hard to predict where new technology might take us. and the same is true for personal dna technology today.for example, i could never have imagined that a truffle farmer, of all people, would use personal dna machines. dr. paul thomas grows truffles for a living. we see him pictured here, holding the first uk-cultivated truffle in his hands, on one of his farms. truffles are this delicacy that stems from a fungus growing on the roots of living trees. and it's a rare fungus. some species may fetch 3,000, 7,000, or more dollars per kilogram. i learned from paul that the stakes for a truffle farmer can be really high. when he sources new truffles to grow on his farms, he's exposed to the threat of knockoffs — truffles that look and feel like the real thing, but they're of lower quality. but even to a trained eye like paul's, even when looked at under a microscope, these truffles can pass for authentic. so in order to grow the highest quality truffles, the ones that chefs all over the world will fight over, paul has to use dna analysis. isn't that mind-blowing? i bet you will never look at that black truffle risotto again without thinking of its genes. but personal dna machines can also save human lives. professor ian goodfellow is a virologist at the university of cambridge. last year he traveled to sierra leone. when the ebola outbreak broke out in western africa, he quickly realized that doctors there lacked the basic tools to detect and combat disease. results could take up to a week to come back — that's way too long for the patients and the families who are suffering. ian decided to move his lab into makeni, sierra leone. here we see ian goodfellow moving over 10 tons of equipment into a pop-up tent that he would equip to detect and diagnose the virus and sequence it within 24 hours. but here's a surprise: the same equipment that ian could use at his lab in the uk to sequence and diagnose ebola, just wouldn't work under these conditions. we're talking 35 celsius heat and over 90 percent humidity here. but instead, ian could use personal dna machines small enough to be placed in front of the air-conditioning unit to keep sequencing the virus and keep saving lives.this may seem like an extreme place for dna analysis, but let's move on to an even more extreme environment: outer space. let's talk about dna analysis in space. when astronauts live aboard the international space station, they're orbiting the planet 250 miles high. they're traveling at 17,000 miles per hour. picture that — you're seeing 15 sunsets and sunrises every day. you're also living in microgravity, floating. and under these conditions, our bodies can do funky things. one of these things is that our immune systems get suppressed, making astronauts more prone to infection.a 16-year-old girl, a high school student from new york, anna-sophia boguraev, wondered whether changes to the dna of astronauts could be related to this immune suppression, and through a science competition called "genes in space," anna-sophia designed an experiment to test this hypothesis using a personal dna machine aboard the international space station. here we see anna-sophia on april 8, 2016, in cape canaveral, watching her experiment launch to the international space station. that cloud of smoke is the rocket that brought anna-sophia's experiment to the international space station, where, three days later, astronaut tim peake carried out her experiment — in microgravity. personal dna machines are now aboard the international space station, where they can help monitor living conditions and protect the lives of astronauts.a 16-year-old designing a dna experiment to protect the lives of astronauts may seem like a rarity, the mark of a child genius. well, to me, it signals something bigger: that dna technology is finally within the reach of every one of you.a few years ago, a college student armed with a personal computer could code an app, an app that is now a social network with more than one billion users. could we be moving into a world of one personal dna machine in every home?i know families who are already living in this reality. the daniels family, for example, set up a dna lab in the basement of their suburban chicago home. this is not a family made of phd scientists. this is a family like any other. they just like to spend time together doing fun, creative things. by day, brian is an executive at a private equity firm. at night and on weekends, he experiments with dna alongside his kids, ages seven and nine, as a way to explore the living world. last time i called them, they were checking out homegrown produce from the backyard garden. they were testing tomatoes that they had picked, taking the flesh of their skin, putting it in a test tube, mixing it with chemicals to extract dna and then using their home dna copier to test those tomatoes for genetically engineered traits.for the daniels family, the personal dna machine is like the chemistry set for the 21st century. most of us may not yet be diagnosing genetic conditions in our kitchen sinks or doing at-home paternity testing. but we've definitely reached a point in history where every one of you could actually get hands-on with dna in your kitchen. you could copy, paste and analyze dna and extract meaningful information from it. and it's at times like this that profound transformation is bound to happen; moments when a transformative, powerful technology that was before limited to a select few in the ivory tower, finally becomes within the reach of every one of us, from farmers to schoolchildren. think about the moment when phones stopped being plugged into the wall by cords, or when computers left the mainframe and entered your home or your office.the ripples of the personal dna revolution may be hard to predict, but one thing is certain: revolutions don't go backwards, and dna technology is already spreading faster than our imagination.so if you're curious, get up close and personal with dna — today. it is in our dna to be curious. thank you. <title = "We can fight terror without sacrificing our rights">
<tags = "['Internet', 'Middle East', 'Surveillance', 'communication', 'democracy', 'global issues', 'privacy', 'protests', 'security', 'social media', 'society', 'technology', 'terrorism', 'violence', 'war', 'web']">
<occupation = "Internet freedom activist">
there's a big question at the center of life in our democracies today: how do we fight terror without destroying democracies, without trampling human rights?i've spent much of my career working with journalists, with bloggers, with activists, with human rights researchers all around the world, and i've come to the conclusion that if our democratic societies do not double down on protecting and defending human rights, freedom of the press and a free and open internet, radical extremist ideologies are much more likely to persist. ok, all done. thank you very much. no, just joking. i actually want to drill down on this a little bit.so, one of the countries that has been on the frontlines of this issue is tunisia, which was the only country to come out of the arab spring with a successful democratic revolution. five years later, they're struggling with serious terror attacks and rampant isis recruitment. and many tunisians are calling on their government to do whatever it takes to keep them safe.tunisian cartoonist nadia khiari has summed up the situation with this character who says, "i don't give a damn about human rights. i don't give a damn about the revolution. i don't give a damn about democracy and liberty. i just want to be safe.""satisfied?" asked his jailer. "you're safe now."if the tunisian people can figure out how to deal with their terrorism problem without ending up in this place, they will be a model not only for their region, but for all of us.the reality is that civil society, journalists and activists are coming under attack from extremist groups on the one hand, and, in many countries, also from their own governments. we're seeing bloggers and journalists being jailed, charged and intimidated by their own governments, many of which are allies with the west in the war on terror.just three examples. a friend and former colleague of mine, hisham almiraat, has been charged with threatening state security, along with six other activists in morocco. the saudi blogger raif badawi has been jailed and flogged for insulting islam and criticizing the saudi regime on his blog. more recently, the turkish representative for reporters without borders, erol önderoglu, has been detained and charged with spreading terrorist propaganda, because he and some other activists have been supporting kurdish media.anti-terror measures quickly turn into state repression without strong protection for minority communities and for peaceful debate; this needs to be supported by a robust, independent local media.but while that's not really happening, washington is teaming up with silicon valley and with hollywood to pour millions — hundreds of millions of dollars — into what's called "counter-messaging," a fancy word for propaganda. to counter the terrorist propaganda spreading all over the internet, in europe, internet referral units are being set up, so that people can report on extremist content that they find and get it censored. the problem is, that all of this propaganda, monitoring and censorship completely fails to make up for the fact that the people who are the most credible voices, who can present credible ideas and alternative solutions to real economic, social and political problems in their community that are causing people to turn to extremism in the first place, are being silenced by their own governments.this is all adding up to a decrease in freedom across the world. freedom house, the human rights organization, reports that 2015 marks the 10th straight year in a row of decline in freedom worldwide. and this is not just because of the actions of authoritarian governments. it's also because democratic governments are increasingly cracking down on dissenters, whistle-blowers and investigative journalists. un secretary general ban ki-moon has warned that "preventing extremism and promoting human rights go hand-in-hand." it's not to say that governments shouldn't keep us safe — of course they should — but we need public oversight, transparency and accountability to the rule of law. meanwhile, extremists are literally killing off civil society in some countries. since 2013 in bangladesh, over a dozen secular bloggers and community activists have been literally slaughtered by extremists while the government has done very little. from the city of raqqa in syria, people like ruqia hassan and naji jerf have been assassinated for their reporting out of isis-controlled territory.the citizen media group called raqqa is being slaughtered silently relies on strong encryption to send out their reports and shield themselves from interception and surveillance. yet authorities in countries like the united states, the united kingdom and many other democracies are seeking to use the law to either weaken or outright ban strong encryption, because the bad guys are using it, too. we have got to fight for the right of citizens to use strong encryption. otherwise, dissent and investigative journalism are going to become even more difficult in even more places. and the bad guys — the criminals and terrorists — are still going to find ways to communicate. kudos to the companies that are standing up for their users' right to use encryption.but when it comes to censorship, the picture is much more troubling. yes, there's a real problem of extremist content spreading all over the internet. and facebook, youtube and twitter are among the many companies who report having taken down hundreds of thousands of pieces of content and deactivating accounts that are connected to the extremist's speech. the problem is their enforcement mechanisms are a complete black box, and there is collateral damage.take, for example, iyad el-baghdadi, an activist who makes fun of isis on twitter. he had his account deactivated, because he shares a surname with a prominent isis leader. last december, a number of women named isis, which also happens to be the name of an egyptian goddess, had their accounts deactivated. and this woman, who lives in the united states and is a computer programmer, reported on twitter about her deactivation on facebook, managed to get enough media attention to have her account reinstated. but that's the thing — she had to get media attention. and journalists aren't immune. david thomson, an expert on terrorism and reporter for radio france international, had reports deleted from his facebook account and had his account deactivated for several days, because they contained pictures of isis flags, even though he was just reporting on isis, not promoting it.and then we have stories from people like this egyptian man, ahmed abdellahy, who reported recently in an event in washington dc that some of his arguments with extremists — he now spends his time on social media arguing with isis followers, trying to get them to turn away — some of his arguments with these extremists get deleted, which he believes has the effect of shielding them from alternative points of view.it's unclear whether facebook even knows the extent of the collateral damage, or the other companies as well. but we do know that journalism, activism and public debate are being silenced in the effort to stamp out extremist speech.so with these companies having so much power over the public discourse, they need to be held accountable. they need to carry out impact assessment to identify and fix the problems that we're clearly seeing. they need to be more transparent about their enforcement mechanisms, and they need to have clear appeal and grievance mechanisms, so people can get their content reinstated.now, i've been talking for the last 10 minutes about how governments and companies are making it more difficult for people like these. this is a picture of members of the citizen media network, global voices, that i helped to cofound over 10 years ago with my friend, ethan zuckerman. interestingly, about 5 years ago, right after the arab spring, the data scientist gilad lotan created a network map of the people in global voices who were heavy users of twitter during the arab spring. and he found that many of these people served as key information nodes between activists and journalists throughout the tunisian and egyptian revolution. we've got to make sure that these people not only survive, but are able to continue to thrive. many of them are still active, other than the ones who have gone to jail or have been driven into hiding or exile.all around the world, people who are sick and tired of fear and oppression are linking up in their communities and across borders. we've got to do everything we can to push our governments and companies to do a better job of protecting their rights. we've also got to be more mindful about how our own personal, political, consumer and business choices affect people like these around the world. also, if you follow the news, it's pretty clear that that alone isn't going to be enough. we've got to take personal responsibility by joining — or at very least, actively supporting — the growing ecosystem of individuals and groups who are fighting for social justice, environmental sustainability, government accountability, human rights, freedom of the press and a free and open internet, all around the world.i believe that, ultimately, we can overcome the digitally empowered networks of extremism, demagoguery and hate. but ... we've got to do this by really beefing up the global networks of citizens around the world, powered by people who are working hard every day, and taking personal risk for a future world that is more peaceful, just, open and free.thanks very much for listening. <title = "America's forgotten working class">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'United States', 'capitalism', 'children', 'cities', 'community', 'economics', 'family', 'history', 'identity', 'personal growth', 'poverty', 'social change']">
<occupation = "Author">
i remember the very first time i went to a nice restaurant, a really nice restaurant. it was for a law firm recruitment dinner, and i remember beforehand the waitress walked around and asked whether we wanted some wine, so i said, "sure, i'll take some white wine."and she immediately said, "would you like sauvignon blanc or chardonnay?"and i remember thinking, "come on, lady, stop with the fancy french words and just give me some white wine." but i used my powers of deduction and recognized that chardonnay and sauvignon blanc were two separate types of white wine, and so i told her that i would take the chardonnay, because frankly that was the easiest one to pronounce for me.so i had a lot of experiences like that during my first couple of years as a law student at yale, because, despite all outward appearances, i'm a cultural outsider. i didn't come from the elites. i didn't come from the northeast or from san francisco. i came from a southern ohio steel town, and it's a town that's really struggling in a lot of ways, ways that are indicative of the broader struggles of america's working class. heroin has moved in, killing a lot of people, people i know. family violence, domestic violence, and divorce have torn apart families. and there's a very unique sense of pessimism that's moved in. think about rising mortality rates in these communities and recognize that for a lot of these folks, the problems that they're seeing are actually causing rising death rates in their own communities, so there's a very real sense of struggle.i had a very front-row seat to that struggle. my family has been part of that struggle for a very long time. i come from a family that doesn't have a whole lot of money. the addiction that plagued my community also plagued my family, and even, sadly, my own mom. there were a lot of problems that i saw in my own family, problems caused sometimes by a lack of money, problems caused sometimes by a lack of access to resources and social capital that really affected my life.if you had looked at my life when i was 14 years old and said, "well, what's going to happen to this kid?" you would have concluded that i would have struggled with what academics call upward mobility. so upward mobility is an abstract term, but it strikes at something that's very core at the heart of the american dream. it's the sense, and it measures whether kids like me who grow up in poor communities are going to live a better life, whether they're going to have a chance to live a materially better existence, or whether they're going to stay in the circumstances where they came from. and one of the things we've learned, unfortunately, is that upward mobility isn't as high as we'd like it to be in this country, and interestingly, it's very geographically distributed. so take utah, for instance. in utah a poor kid is actually doing ok, very likely to live their share and their part in the american dream. but if you think of where i'm from, in the south, in appalachia, in southern ohio, it's very unlikely that kids like that will rise. the american dream in those parts of the country is in a very real sense just a dream.so why is that happening? so one reason is obviously economic or structural. so you think of these areas. they're beset by these terrible economic trends, built around industries like coal and steel that make it harder for folks to get ahead. that's certainly one problem. there's also the problem of brain drain, where the really talented people, because they can't find high-skilled work at home, end up moving elsewhere, so they don't build a business or non-profit where they're from, they end up going elsewhere and taking their talents with them. there are failing schools in a lot of these communities, failing to give kids the educational leg up that really makes it possible for kids to have opportunities later in life. these things are all important. i don't mean to discount these structural barriers. but when i look back at my life and my community, something else was going on, something else mattered. it's difficult to quantify, but it was no less real.so for starters, there was a very real sense of hopelessness in the community that i grew up in. there was a sense that kids had that their choices didn't matter. no matter what happened, no matter how hard they worked, no matter how hard they tried to get ahead, nothing good would happen. so that's a tough feeling to grow up around. that's a tough mindset to penetrate, and it leads sometimes to very conspiratorial places. so let's just take one political issue that's pretty hot, affirmative action. so depending on your politics, you might think that affirmative action is either a wise or an unwise way to promote diversity in the workplace or the classroom. but if you grow up in an area like this, you see affirmative action as a tool to hold people like you back. that's especially true if you're a member of the white working class. you see it as something that isn't just about good or bad policy. you see it as something that's actively conspiring, where people with political and financial power are working against you. and there are a lot of ways that you see that conspiracy against you — perceived, real, but it's there, and it warps expectations.so if you think about what do you do when you grow up in that world, you can respond in a couple of ways. one, you can say, "i'm not going to work hard, because no matter how hard i work, it's not going to matter." another thing you might do is say, "well, i'm not going to go after the traditional markers of success, like a university education or a prestigious job, because the people who care about those things are unlike me. they're never going to let me in." when i got admitted to yale, a family member asked me if i had pretended to be a liberal to get by the admissions committee. seriously. and it's obviously not the case that there was a liberal box to check on the application, but it speaks to a very real insecurity in these places that you have to pretend to be somebody you're not to get past these various social barriers. it's a very significant problem.even if you don't give in to that hopelessness, even if you think, let's say, that your choices matter and you want to make the good choices, you want to do better for yourself and for your family, it's sometimes hard to even know what those choices are when you grow up in a community like i did. i didn't know, for example, that you had to go to law school to be a lawyer. i didn't know that elite universities, as research consistently tells us, are cheaper for low-income kids because these universities have bigger endowments, can offer more generous financial aid. i remember i learned this when i got the financial aid letter from yale for myself, tens of thousands of dollars in need-based aid, which is a term i had never heard before. but i turned to my aunt when i got that letter and said, "you know, i think this just means that for the first time in my life, being poor has paid really well."so i didn't have access to that information because the social networks around me didn't have access to that information. i learned from my community how to shoot a gun, how to shoot it well. i learned how to make a damn good biscuit recipe. the trick, by the way, is frozen butter, not warm butter. but i didn't learn how to get ahead. i didn't learn how to make the good decisions about education and opportunity that you need to make to actually have a chance in this 21st century knowledge economy. economists call the value that we gain from our informal networks, from our friends and colleagues and family "social capital." the social capital that i had wasn't built for 21st century america, and it showed.there's something else that's really important that's going on that our community doesn't like to talk about, but it's very real. working-class kids are much more likely to face what's called adverse childhood experiences, which is just a fancy word for childhood trauma: getting hit or yelled at, put down by a parent repeatedly, watching someone hit or beat your parent, watching someone do drugs or abuse alcohol. these are all instances of childhood trauma, and they're pretty commonplace in my family. importantly, they're not just commonplace in my family right now. they're also multigenerational. so my grandparents, the very first time that they had kids, they expected that they were going to raise them in a way that was uniquely good. they were middle class, they were able to earn a good wage in a steel mill. but what ended up happening is that they exposed their kids to a lot of the childhood trauma that had gone back many generations. my mom was 12 when she saw my grandma set my grandfather on fire. his crime was that he came home drunk after she told him, "if you come home drunk, i'm gonna kill you." and she tried to do it. think about the way that that affects a child's mind.and we think of these things as especially rare, but a study by the wisconsin children's trust fund found that 40 percent of low-income kids face multiple instances of childhood trauma, compared to only 29 percent for upper-income kids. and think about what that really means. if you're a low-income kid, almost half of you face multiple instances of childhood trauma. this is not an isolated problem. this is a very significant issue.we know what happens to the kids who experience that life. they're more likely to do drugs, more likely to go to jail, more likely to drop out of high school, and most importantly, they're more likely to do to their children what their parents did to them. this trauma, this chaos in the home, is our culture's very worst gift to our children, and it's a gift that keeps on giving.so you combine all that, the hopelessness, the despair, the cynicism about the future, the childhood trauma, the low social capital, and you begin to understand why me, at the age of 14, was ready to become just another statistic, another kid who failed to beat the odds.but something unexpected happened. i did beat the odds. things turned up for me. i graduated from high school, from college, i went to law school, and i have a pretty good job now. so what happened?well, one thing that happened is that my grandparents, the same grandparents of setting someone on fire fame, they really shaped up by the time i came around. they provided me a stable home, a stable family. they made sure that when my parents weren't able to do the things that kids need, they stepped in and filled that role. my grandma especially did two things that really matter. one, she provided that peaceful home that allowed me to focus on homework and the things that kids should be focused on. but she was also this incredibly perceptive woman, despite not even having a middle school education. she recognized the message that my community had for me, that my choices didn't matter, that the deck was stacked against me. she once told me, "jd, never be like those losers who think the deck is stacked against them. you can do anything you want to."and yet she recognized that life wasn't fair. it's hard to strike that balance, to tell a kid that life isn't fair, but also recognize and enforce in them the reality that their choices matter. but mamaw was able to strike that balance.the other thing that really helped was the united states marine corps. so we think of the marine corps as a military outfit, and of course it is, but for me, the us marine corps was a four-year crash course in character education. it taught me how to make a bed, how to do laundry, how to wake up early, how to manage my finances. these are things my community didn't teach me. i remember when i went to go buy a car for the very first time, i was offered a dealer's low, low interest rate of 21.9 percent, and i was ready to sign on the dotted line. but i didn't take that deal, because i went and took it to my officer who told me, "stop being an idiot, go to the local credit union, and get a better deal." and so that's what i did. but without the marine corps, i would have never had access to that knowledge. i would have had a financial calamity, frankly.the last thing i want to say is that i had a lot of good fortune in the mentors and people who have played an important role in my life. from the marines, from ohio state, from yale, from other places, people have really stepped in and ensured that they filled that social capital gap that it was pretty obvious, apparently, that i had. that comes from good fortune, but a lot of children aren't going to have that good fortune, and i think that raises really important questions for all of us about how we're going to change that. we need to ask questions about how we're going to give low-income kids who come from a broken home access to a loving home. we need to ask questions about how we're going to teach low-income parents how to better interact with their children, with their partners. we need to ask questions about how we give social capital, mentorship to low-income kids who don't have it. we need to think about how we teach working class children about not just hard skills, like reading, mathematics, but also soft skills, like conflict resolution and financial management.now, i don't have all of the answers. i don't know all of the solutions to this problem, but i do know this: in southern ohio right now, there's a kid who is anxiously awaiting their dad, wondering whether, when he comes through the door, he'll walk calmly or stumble drunkly. there's a kid whose mom sticks a needle in her arm and passes out, and he doesn't know why she doesn't cook him dinner, and he goes to bed hungry that night. there's a kid who has no hope for the future but desperately wants to live a better life. they just want somebody to show it to them. i don't have all the answers, but i know that unless our society starts asking better questions about why i was so lucky and about how to get that luck to more of our communities and our country's children, we're going to continue to have a very significant problem.thank you. <title = "A visual history of social dance in 25 moves">
<tags = "['Africa', 'Slavery', 'TED Fellows', 'art', 'collaboration', 'communication', 'community', 'dance', 'demo', 'entertainment', 'history', 'humanity', 'identity', 'innovation', 'performance', 'race', 'self', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Choreographer and educator">
this is the bop.the bop is a type of social dance.dance is a language, and social dance is an expression that emerges from a community. a social dance isn't choreographed by any one person. it can't be traced to any one moment.each dance has steps that everyone can agree on, but it's about the individual and their creative identity. because of that, social dances bubble up, they change and they spread like wildfire.they are as old as our remembered history. in african-american social dances, we see over 200 years of how african and african-american traditions influenced our history. the present always contains the past. and the past shapes who we are and who we will be.(clapping)the juba dance was born from enslaved africans' experience on the plantation. brought to the americas, stripped of a common spoken language, this dance was a way for enslaved africans to remember where they're from. it may have looked something like this.slapping thighs, shuffling feet and patting hands: this was how they got around the slave owners' ban on drumming, improvising complex rhythms just like ancestors did with drums in haiti or in the yoruba communities of west africa. it was about keeping cultural traditions alive and retaining a sense of inner freedom under captivity.it was the same subversive spirit that created this dance: the cakewalk, a dance that parodied the mannerisms of southern high society — a way for the enslaved to throw shade at the masters. the crazy thing about this dance is that the cakewalk was performed for the masters, who never suspected they were being made fun of.now you might recognize this one. 1920s — the charleston. the charleston was all about improvisation and musicality, making its way into lindy hop, swing dancing and even the kid n play, originally called the funky charleston.started by a tight-knit black community near charleston, south carolina, the charleston permeated dance halls where young women suddenly had the freedom to kick their heels and move their legs.now, social dance is about community and connection; if you knew the steps, it meant you belonged to a group. but what if it becomes a worldwide craze? enter the twist. it's no surprise that the twist can be traced back to the 19th century, brought to america from the congo during slavery. but in the late '50s, right before the civil rights movement, the twist is popularized by chubby checker and dick clark. suddenly, everybody's doing the twist: white teenagers, kids in latin america, making its way into songs and movies. through social dance, the boundaries between groups become blurred.the story continues in the 1980s and '90s. along with the emergence of hip-hop, african-american social dance took on even more visibility, borrowing from its long past, shaping culture and being shaped by it.today, these dances continue to evolve, grow and spread.why do we dance? to move, to let loose, to express. why do we dance together? to heal, to remember, to say: "we speak a common language. we exist and we are free."<title = "How we're harnessing nature's hidden superpowers">
<tags = "['DNA', 'animals', 'biodiversity', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'books', 'collaboration', 'design', 'environment', 'evolution', 'future', 'genetics', 'innovation', 'life', 'materials', 'nature', 'plants', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Nanobiotechnologist">
two hundred years of modern science. we have to admit that our performance is not great. the machines we build continue to suffer from mechanical failures. the houses we build do not survive severe earthquakes. but we shouldn't be so critical of our scientists for a simple reason: they didn't have much time. two hundred years is not a lot of time, while nature had three billion years to perfect some of the most amazing materials, that we wish we had in our possession. remember, these materials carry a quality assurance of three billion years.take, for example, sequoia trees. they carry hundreds of tons for hundreds of years in cold weather, in warm climates, uv light. yet, if you look at the structure by high-resolution electron microscopy, and you ask yourself, what is it made of, surprisingly, it's made of sugar. well, not exactly as we drink in our tea. it's actually a nanofiber called nanocrystalline cellulose. and this nanocrystalline cellulose is so strong, on a weight basis, it's about 10 times stronger than steel. yet it's made of sugar.so scientists all over the world believe that nanocellulose is going to be one of the most important materials for the entire industry. but here's the problem: say you want to buy a half a ton of nanocellulose to build a boat or an airplane. well, you can google, you can ebay, you can even alibaba. you won't find it. of course, you're going to find thousands of scientific papers — great papers, where scientists are going to say this is a great material, there are lots of things we can do with it. but no commercial source.so we at the hebrew university, together with our partners in sweden, decided to focus on the development of an industrial-scale process to produce this nanocellulose. and, of course, we didn't want to cut trees. so we were looking for another source of raw material, and we found one — in fact, the sludge of the paper industry. the reason: there is a lot of it. europe alone produces 11 million tons of that material annually. it's the equivalent of a mountain three kilometers high, sitting on a soccer field. and we produce this mountain every year. so for everybody, it's an environmental problem, and for us, it's a gold mine.so now, we are actually producing, on an industrial scale in israel, nanocellulose, and very soon, in sweden. we can do a lot of things with the material. for example, we have shown that by adding only a small percent of nanocellulose into cotton fibers, the same as my shirt is made of, it increases its strength dramatically. so this can be used for making amazing things, like super-fabrics for industrial and medical applications. but this is not the only thing. for example, self-standing, self-supporting structures, like the shelters that you can see now, actually are now showcasing in the venice biennale for architecture.nature actually didn't stop its wonders in the plant kingdom. think about insects. cat fleas, for example, have the ability to jump about a hundred times their height. that's amazing. it's the equivalent of a person standing in the middle of liberty island in new york, and in a single jump, going to the top of the statue of liberty. i'm sure everybody would like to do that. so the question is: how do cat fleas do it?it turns out, they make this wonderful material, which is called resilin. in simple words, resilin, which is a protein, is the most elastic rubber on earth. you can stretch it, you can squish it, and it doesn't lose almost any energy to the environment. when you release it — snap! it brings back all the energy. so i'm sure everybody would like to have that material. but here's the problem: to catch cat fleas is difficult. why? because they are jumpy. but now, it's actually enough to catch one. now we can extract its dna and read how cat fleas make the resilin, and clone it into a less-jumpy organism like a plant. so that's exactly what we did. now we have the ability to produce lots of resilin.well, my team decided to do something really cool at the university. they decided to combine the strongest material produced by the plant kingdom with the most elastic material produced by the insect kingdom — nanocellulose with resilin. and the result is amazing. this material, in fact, is tough, elastic and transparent. so there are lots of things that can be done with this material. for example, next-generation sport shoes, so we can jump higher, run faster. and even touch screens for computers and smartphones, that won't break.well, the problem is, we continue to implant synthetic implants in our body, which we glue and screw into our body. and i'm going to say that this is not a good idea. why? because they fail. this synthetic material fails, just like this plastic fork, that is not strong enough for its performance. but sometimes they are too strong, and therefore their mechanical properties do not really fit their surrounding tissues.but in fact, the reason is much more fundamental. the reason is that in nature, there is no one there that actually takes my head and screws it onto my neck, or takes my skin and glues it onto my body. in nature, everything is self-assembled. so every living cell, whether coming from a plant, insect or human being, has a dna that encodes for nanobio building blocks. many times they are proteins. other times, they are enzymes that make other materials, like polysaccharides, fatty acids. and the common feature about all these materials is that they need no one. they recognize each other and self-assemble into structures — scaffolds on which cells are proliferating to give tissues. they develop into organs, and together bring life.so we at the hebrew university, about 10 years ago, decided to focus on probably the most important biomaterial for humans, which is collagen. why collagen? because collagen accounts for about 25 percent of our dry weight. we have nothing more than collagen, other than water, in our body. so i always like to say, anyone who is in the replacement parts of human beings would like to have collagen.admittedly, before we started our project, there were already more than 1,000 medical implants made of collagen. you know, simple things like dermal fillers to reduce wrinkles, augment lips, and other, more sophisticated medical implants, like heart valves. so where is the problem? well, the problem is the source. the source of all that collagen is actually coming from dead bodies: dead pigs, dead cows and even human cadavers. so safety is a big issue. but it's not the only one. also, the quality.now here, i have a personal interest. this is my father, zvi, in our winery in israel. a heart valve, very similar to the one that i showed you before, seven years ago, was implanted in his body. now, the scientific literature says that these heart valves start to fail 10 years after the operation. no wonder: they are made from old, used tissues, just like this wall made of bricks that is falling apart. yeah, of course, i can take those bricks and build a new wall. but it's not going to be the same. so the us food and drug administration made a notice already in 2007, asking the companies to start to look for better alternatives.so that's exactly what we did. we decided to clone all the five human genes responsible for making type i collagen in humans into a transgenic tobacco plant. so now, the plant has the ability to make human collagen brand new, untouched. this is amazing. actually, it's happening now. today in israel, we grow it in 25,000 square meters of greenhouses all over the country. the farmers receive small plantlets of tobacco. it looks exactly like regular tobacco, except that they have five human genes. they're responsible for making type i collagen. we grow them for about 50 to 70 days, we harvest the leaves, and then the leaves are transported by cooling trucks to the factory. there, the process of extracting the collagen starts.now, if you ever made a pesto — essentially, the same thing. you crush the leaves, you get the juice that contains the collagen. we concentrate the protein, transfer the protein to clean rooms for the final purification, and the end result is a collagen identical to what we have in our body — untouched, brand new and from which we make different medical implants: bone void fillers, for example, for severe bone fractures, spinal fusion. and more recently, even, we've been able to launch into the market here in europe a flowable gel that is used for diabetic foot ulcers, that is now approved for use in the clinic.this is not science fiction. this is happening now. we are using plants to make medical implants for replacement parts for human beings. in fact, more recently, we've been able to make collagen fibers which are six times stronger than the achilles tendon. that's amazing.together with our partners from ireland, we thought about the next thing: adding resilin to those fibers. by doing that, we've been able to make a superfiber which is about 380 percent tougher, and 300 percent more elastic. so oddly enough, in the future, when a patient is transplanted with artificial tendons or ligaments made from these fibers, we'll have better performance after the surgery than we had before the injury.so what's for the future? in the future, we believe we'll be able to make many nanobio building blocks that nature provided for us — collagen, nanocellulose, resilin and many more. and that will enable us to make better machines perform better, even the heart. now, this heart is not going to be the same as we can get from a donor. it will be better. it actually will perform better and will last longer.my friend zion suliman once told me a smart sentence. he said, "if you want a new idea, you should open an old book." and i'm going to say that the book was written. it was written over three billion years of evolution. and the text is the dna of life. all we have to do is read this text, embrace nature's gift to us and start our progress from here.thank you. <title = "Can we build AI without losing control over it?">
<tags = "['AI', 'brain', 'choice', 'future', 'history', 'humanity', 'innovation', 'intelligence', 'invention', 'machine learning', 'mind', 'neuroscience', 'potential', 'robots', 'science', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Neuroscientist, philosopher">
i'm going to talk about a failure of intuition that many of us suffer from. it's really a failure to detect a certain kind of danger. i'm going to describe a scenario that i think is both terrifying and likely to occur, and that's not a good combination, as it turns out. and yet rather than be scared, most of you will feel that what i'm talking about is kind of cool.i'm going to describe how the gains we make in artificial intelligence could ultimately destroy us. and in fact, i think it's very difficult to see how they won't destroy us or inspire us to destroy ourselves. and yet if you're anything like me, you'll find that it's fun to think about these things. and that response is part of the problem. ok? that response should worry you. and if i were to convince you in this talk that we were likely to suffer a global famine, either because of climate change or some other catastrophe, and that your grandchildren, or their grandchildren, are very likely to live like this, you wouldn't think, "interesting. i like this ted talk."famine isn't fun. death by science fiction, on the other hand, is fun, and one of the things that worries me most about the development of ai at this point is that we seem unable to marshal an appropriate emotional response to the dangers that lie ahead. i am unable to marshal this response, and i'm giving this talk.it's as though we stand before two doors. behind door number one, we stop making progress in building intelligent machines. our computer hardware and software just stops getting better for some reason. now take a moment to consider why this might happen. i mean, given how valuable intelligence and automation are, we will continue to improve our technology if we are at all able to. what could stop us from doing this? a full-scale nuclear war? a global pandemic? an asteroid impact? justin bieber becoming president of the united states? the point is, something would have to destroy civilization as we know it. you have to imagine how bad it would have to be to prevent us from making improvements in our technology permanently, generation after generation. almost by definition, this is the worst thing that's ever happened in human history.so the only alternative, and this is what lies behind door number two, is that we continue to improve our intelligent machines year after year after year. at a certain point, we will build machines that are smarter than we are, and once we have machines that are smarter than we are, they will begin to improve themselves. and then we risk what the mathematician ij good called an "intelligence explosion," that the process could get away from us.now, this is often caricatured, as i have here, as a fear that armies of malicious robots will attack us. but that isn't the most likely scenario. it's not that our machines will become spontaneously malevolent. the concern is really that we will build machines that are so much more competent than we are that the slightest divergence between their goals and our own could destroy us.just think about how we relate to ants. we don't hate them. we don't go out of our way to harm them. in fact, sometimes we take pains not to harm them. we step over them on the sidewalk. but whenever their presence seriously conflicts with one of our goals, let's say when constructing a building like this one, we annihilate them without a qualm. the concern is that we will one day build machines that, whether they're conscious or not, could treat us with similar disregard.now, i suspect this seems far-fetched to many of you. i bet there are those of you who doubt that superintelligent ai is possible, much less inevitable. but then you must find something wrong with one of the following assumptions. and there are only three of them.intelligence is a matter of information processing in physical systems. actually, this is a little bit more than an assumption. we have already built narrow intelligence into our machines, and many of these machines perform at a level of superhuman intelligence already. and we know that mere matter can give rise to what is called "general intelligence," an ability to think flexibly across multiple domains, because our brains have managed it. right? i mean, there's just atoms in here, and as long as we continue to build systems of atoms that display more and more intelligent behavior, we will eventually, unless we are interrupted, we will eventually build general intelligence into our machines.it's crucial to realize that the rate of progress doesn't matter, because any progress is enough to get us into the end zone. we don't need moore's law to continue. we don't need exponential progress. we just need to keep going.the second assumption is that we will keep going. we will continue to improve our intelligent machines. and given the value of intelligence — i mean, intelligence is either the source of everything we value or we need it to safeguard everything we value. it is our most valuable resource. so we want to do this. we have problems that we desperately need to solve. we want to cure diseases like alzheimer's and cancer. we want to understand economic systems. we want to improve our climate science. so we will do this, if we can. the train is already out of the station, and there's no brake to pull.finally, we don't stand on a peak of intelligence, or anywhere near it, likely. and this really is the crucial insight. this is what makes our situation so precarious, and this is what makes our intuitions about risk so unreliable.now, just consider the smartest person who has ever lived. on almost everyone's shortlist here is john von neumann. i mean, the impression that von neumann made on the people around him, and this included the greatest mathematicians and physicists of his time, is fairly well-documented. if only half the stories about him are half true, there's no question he's one of the smartest people who has ever lived. so consider the spectrum of intelligence. here we have john von neumann. and then we have you and me. and then we have a chicken. sorry, a chicken. there's no reason for me to make this talk more depressing than it needs to be. it seems overwhelmingly likely, however, that the spectrum of intelligence extends much further than we currently conceive, and if we build machines that are more intelligent than we are, they will very likely explore this spectrum in ways that we can't imagine, and exceed us in ways that we can't imagine.and it's important to recognize that this is true by virtue of speed alone. right? so imagine if we just built a superintelligent ai that was no smarter than your average team of researchers at stanford or mit. well, electronic circuits function about a million times faster than biochemical ones, so this machine should think about a million times faster than the minds that built it. so you set it running for a week, and it will perform 20,000 years of human-level intellectual work, week after week after week. how could we even understand, much less constrain, a mind making this sort of progress?the other thing that's worrying, frankly, is that, imagine the best case scenario. so imagine we hit upon a design of superintelligent ai that has no safety concerns. we have the perfect design the first time around. it's as though we've been handed an oracle that behaves exactly as intended. well, this machine would be the perfect labor-saving device. it can design the machine that can build the machine that can do any physical work, powered by sunlight, more or less for the cost of raw materials. so we're talking about the end of human drudgery. we're also talking about the end of most intellectual work.so what would apes like ourselves do in this circumstance? well, we'd be free to play frisbee and give each other massages. add some lsd and some questionable wardrobe choices, and the whole world could be like burning man. now, that might sound pretty good, but ask yourself what would happen under our current economic and political order? it seems likely that we would witness a level of wealth inequality and unemployment that we have never seen before. absent a willingness to immediately put this new wealth to the service of all humanity, a few trillionaires could grace the covers of our business magazines while the rest of the world would be free to starve.and what would the russians or the chinese do if they heard that some company in silicon valley was about to deploy a superintelligent ai? this machine would be capable of waging war, whether terrestrial or cyber, with unprecedented power. this is a winner-take-all scenario. to be six months ahead of the competition here is to be 500,000 years ahead, at a minimum. so it seems that even mere rumors of this kind of breakthrough could cause our species to go berserk.now, one of the most frightening things, in my view, at this moment, are the kinds of things that ai researchers say when they want to be reassuring. and the most common reason we're told not to worry is time. this is all a long way off, don't you know. this is probably 50 or 100 years away. one researcher has said, "worrying about ai safety is like worrying about overpopulation on mars." this is the silicon valley version of "don't worry your pretty little head about it." no one seems to notice that referencing the time horizon is a total non sequitur. if intelligence is just a matter of information processing, and we continue to improve our machines, we will produce some form of superintelligence. and we have no idea how long it will take us to create the conditions to do that safely. let me say that again. we have no idea how long it will take us to create the conditions to do that safely.and if you haven't noticed, 50 years is not what it used to be. this is 50 years in months. this is how long we've had the iphone. this is how long "the simpsons" has been on television. fifty years is not that much time to meet one of the greatest challenges our species will ever face. once again, we seem to be failing to have an appropriate emotional response to what we have every reason to believe is coming.the computer scientist stuart russell has a nice analogy here. he said, imagine that we received a message from an alien civilization, which read: "people of earth, we will arrive on your planet in 50 years. get ready." and now we're just counting down the months until the mothership lands? we would feel a little more urgency than we do.another reason we're told not to worry is that these machines can't help but share our values because they will be literally extensions of ourselves. they'll be grafted onto our brains, and we'll essentially become their limbic systems. now take a moment to consider that the safest and only prudent path forward, recommended, is to implant this technology directly into our brains. now, this may in fact be the safest and only prudent path forward, but usually one's safety concerns about a technology have to be pretty much worked out before you stick it inside your head. the deeper problem is that building superintelligent ai on its own seems likely to be easier than building superintelligent ai and having the completed neuroscience that allows us to seamlessly integrate our minds with it. and given that the companies and governments doing this work are likely to perceive themselves as being in a race against all others, given that to win this race is to win the world, provided you don't destroy it in the next moment, then it seems likely that whatever is easier to do will get done first.now, unfortunately, i don't have a solution to this problem, apart from recommending that more of us think about it. i think we need something like a manhattan project on the topic of artificial intelligence. not to build it, because i think we'll inevitably do that, but to understand how to avoid an arms race and to build it in a way that is aligned with our interests. when you're talking about superintelligent ai that can make changes to itself, it seems that we only have one chance to get the initial conditions right, and even then we will need to absorb the economic and political consequences of getting them right.but the moment we admit that information processing is the source of intelligence, that some appropriate computational system is what the basis of intelligence is, and we admit that we will improve these systems continuously, and we admit that the horizon of cognition very likely far exceeds what we currently know, then we have to admit that we are in the process of building some sort of god. now would be a good time to make sure it's a god we can live with.thank you very much. <title = "Technology hasn't changed love. Here's why">
<tags = "['Internet', 'anthropology', 'communication', 'compassion', 'humanity', 'love', 'personal growth', 'personality', 'relationships', 'society', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Anthropologist, expert on love">
i was recently traveling in the highlands of new guinea, and i was talking with a man who had three wives. i asked him, "how many wives would you like to have?" and there was this long pause, and i thought to myself, "is he going to say five? is he going to say 10? is he going to say 25?" and he leaned towards me and he whispered, "none." eighty-six percent of human societies permit a man to have several wives: polygyny. but in the vast majority of these cultures, only about five or ten percent of men actually do have several wives. having several partners can be a toothache. in fact, co-wives can fight with each other, sometimes they can even poison each other's children. and you've got to have a lot of cows, a lot of goats, a lot of money, a lot of land, in order to build a harem.we are a pair-bonding species. ninety-seven percent of mammals do not pair up to rear their young; human beings do. i'm not suggesting that we're not — that we're necessarily sexually faithful to our partners. i've looked at adultery in 42 cultures, i understand, actually, some of the genetics of it, and some of the brain circuitry of it. it's very common around the world, but we are built to love.how is technology changing love? i'm going to say almost not at all. i study the brain. i and my colleagues have put over 100 people into a brain scanner — people who had just fallen happily in love, people who had just been rejected in love and people who are in love long-term. and it is possible to remain "in love" long-term. and i've long ago maintained that we've evolved three distinctly different brain systems for mating and reproduction: sex drive, feelings of intense romantic love and feelings of deep cosmic attachment to a long-term partner. and together, these three brain systems — with many other parts of the brain — orchestrate our sexual, our romantic and our family lives.but they lie way below the cortex, way below the limbic system where we feel our emotions, generate our emotions. they lie in the most primitive parts of the brain, linked with energy, focus, craving, motivation, wanting and drive. in this case, the drive to win life's greatest prize: a mating partner. they evolved over 4.4 million years ago among our first ancestors, and they're not going to change if you swipe left or right on tinder. there's no question that technology is changing the way we court: emailing, texting, emojis to express your emotions, sexting, "liking" a photograph, selfies ... we're seeing new rules and taboos for how to court. but, you know — is this actually dramatically changing love? what about the late 1940s, when the automobile became very popular and we suddenly had rolling bedrooms? how about the introduction of the birth control pill? unchained from the great threat of pregnancy and social ruin, women could finally express their primitive and primal sexuality.even dating sites are not changing love. i'm chief scientific advisor to match.com, i've been it for 11 years. i keep telling them and they agree with me, that these are not dating sites, they are introducing sites. when you sit down in a bar, in a coffee house, on a park bench, your ancient brain snaps into action like a sleeping cat awakened, and you smile and laugh and listen and parade the way our ancestors did 100,000 years ago. we can give you various people — all the dating sites can — but the only real algorithm is your own human brain. technology is not going to change that.technology is also not going to change who you choose to love. i study the biology of personality, and i've come to believe that we've evolved four very broad styles of thinking and behaving, linked with the dopamine, serotonin, testosterone and estrogen systems. so i created a questionnaire directly from brain science to measure the degree to which you express the traits — the constellation of traits — linked with each of these four brain systems. i then put that questionnaire on various dating sites in 40 countries. fourteen million or more people have now taken the questionnaire, and i've been able to watch who's naturally drawn to whom.and as it turns out, those who were very expressive of the dopamine system tend to be curious, creative, spontaneous, energetic — i would imagine there's an awful lot of people like that in this room — they're drawn to people like themselves. curious, creative people need people like themselves. people who are very expressive of the serotonin system tend to be traditional, conventional, they follow the rules, they respect authority, they tend to be religious — religiosity is in the serotonin system — and traditional people go for traditional people. in that way, similarity attracts. in the other two cases, opposites attract. people very expressive of the testosterone system tend to be analytical, logical, direct, decisive, and they go for their opposite: they go for somebody who's high estrogen, somebody who's got very good verbal skills and people skills, who's very intuitive and who's very nurturing and emotionally expressive. we have natural patterns of mate choice. modern technology is not going to change who we choose to love.but technology is producing one modern trend that i find particularly important. it's associated with the concept of paradox of choice. for millions of years, we lived in little hunting and gathering groups. you didn't have the opportunity to choose between 1,000 people on a dating site. in fact, i've been studying this recently, and i actually think there's some sort of sweet spot in the brain; i don't know what it is, but apparently, from reading a lot of the data, we can embrace about five to nine alternatives, and after that, you get into what academics call "cognitive overload," and you don't choose any.so i've come to think that due to this cognitive overload, we're ushering in a new form of courtship that i call "slow love." i arrived at this during my work with match.com. every year for the last six years, we've done a study called "singles in america." we don't poll the match population, we poll the american population. we use 5,000-plus people, a representative sample of americans based on the us census.we've got data now on over 30,000 people, and every single year, i see some of the same patterns. every single year when i ask the question, over 50 percent of people have had a one-night stand — not necessarily last year, but in their lives — 50 percent have had a friends with benefits during the course of their lives, and over 50 percent have lived with a person long-term before marrying. americans think that this is reckless. i have doubted that for a long time; the patterns are too strong. there's got to be some darwinian explanation — not that many people are crazy.and i stumbled, then, on a statistic that really came home to me. it was a very interesting academic article in which i found that 67 percent of singles in america today who are living long-term with somebody, have not yet married because they are terrified of divorce. they're terrified of the social, legal, emotional, economic consequences of divorce. so i came to realize that i don't think this is recklessness; i think it's caution. today's singles want to know every single thing about a partner before they wed. you learn a lot between the sheets, not only about how somebody makes love, but whether they're kind, whether they can listen and at my age, whether they've got a sense of humor. and in an age where we have too many choices, we have very little fear of pregnancy and disease and we've got no feeling of shame for sex before marriage, i think people are taking their time to love.and actually, what's happening is, what we're seeing is a real expansion of the precommitment stage before you tie the knot. where marriage used to be the beginning of a relationship, now it's the finale. but the human brain — the human brain always triumphs, and indeed, in the united states today, 86 percent of americans will marry by age 49. and even in cultures around the world where they're not marrying as often, they are settling down eventually with a long-term partner.so it began to occur to me: during this long extension of the precommitment stage, if you can get rid of bad relationships before you marry, maybe we're going to see more happy marriages. so i did a study of 1,100 married people in america — not on match.com, of course — and i asked them a lot of questions. but one of the questions was, "would you re-marry the person you're currently married to?" and 81 percent said, "yes."in fact, the greatest change in modern romance and family life is not technology. it's not even slow love. it's actually women piling into the job market in cultures around the world. for millions of years, our ancestors lived in little hunting and gathering groups. women commuted to work to gather their fruits and vegetables. they came home with 60 to 80 percent of the evening meal. the double-income family was the rule. and women were regarded as just as economically, socially and sexually powerful as men.then the environment changed some 10,000 years ago, we began to settle down on the farm and both men and women became obliged, really, to marry the right person, from the right background, from the right religion and from the right kin and social and political connections. men's jobs became more important: they had to move the rocks, fell the trees, plow the land. they brought the produce to local markets, and came home with the equivalent of money.along with this, we see a rise of a host of beliefs: the belief of virginity at marriage, arranged marriages — strictly arranged marriages — the belief that the man is the head of the household, that the wife's place is in the home and most important, honor thy husband, and 'til death do us part. these are gone. they are going, and in many places, they are gone.we are right now in a marriage revolution. we are shedding 10,000 years of our farming tradition and moving forward towards egalitarian relationships between the sexes — something i regard as highly compatible with the ancient human spirit.i'm not a pollyanna; there's a great deal to cry about. i've studied divorce in 80 cultures, i've studied, as i say, adultery in many — there's a whole pile of problems. as william butler yeats, the poet, once said, "love is the crooked thing." i would add, "nobody gets out alive." we all have problems. but in fact, i think the poet randall jarrell really sums it up best. he said, "the dark, uneasy world of family life — where the greatest can fail, and the humblest succeed."but i will leave you with this: love and attachment will prevail, technology cannot change it. and i will conclude by saying any understanding of human relationships must take into account one the most powerful determinants of human behavior: the unquenchable, adaptable and primordial human drive to love.thank you. kelly stoetzel: thank you so much for that, helen. as you know, there's another speaker here with us that works in your same field. she comes at it from a different perspective. esther perel is a psychotherapist who works with couples. you study data, esther studies the stories the couples tell her when they come to her for help. let's have her join us on the stage. esther? so esther, when you were watching helen's talk, was there any part of it that resonated with you through the lens of your own work that you'd like to comment on?esther perel: it's interesting, because on the one hand, the need for love is ubiquitous and universal. but the way we love — the meaning we make out of it — the rules that govern our relationships, i think, are changing fundamentally.we come from a model that, until now, was primarily regulated around duty and obligation, the needs of the collective and loyalty. and we have shifted it to a model of free choice and individual rights, and self-fulfillment and happiness. and so, that was the first thing i thought, that the need doesn't change, but the context and the way we regulate these relationships changes a lot.on the paradox of choice — you know, on the one hand we relish the novelty and the playfulness, i think, to be able to have so many options. and at the same time, as you talk about this cognitive overload, i see many, many people who ... who dread the uncertainty and self-doubt that comes with this massa of choice, creating a case of "fomo" and then leading us — fomo, fear of missed opportunity, or fear of missing out — it's like, "how do i know i have found 'the one' — the right one?"so we've created what i call this thing of "stable ambiguity." stable ambiguity is when you are too afraid to be alone but also not really willing to engage in intimacy-building. it's a set of tactics that kind of prolong the uncertainty of a relationship but also the uncertainty of the breakup. so, here on the internet you have three major ones. one is icing and simmering, which are great stalling tactics that offer a kind of holding pattern that emphasizes the undefined nature of a relationship but at the same time gives you enough of a comforting consistency and enough freedom of the undefined boundaries. yeah?and then comes ghosting. and ghosting is, basically, you disappear from this massa of texts on the spot, and you don't have to deal with the pain that you inflict on another, because you're making it invisible even to yourself. yeah?so i was thinking — these words came up for me as i was listening to you, like how a vocabulary also creates a reality, and at the same time, that's my question to you: do you think when the context changes, it still means that the nature of love remains the same?you study the brain and i study people's relationships and stories, so i think it's everything you say, plus. but i don't always know the degree to which a changing context ... does it at some point begin to change — if the meaning changes, does it change the need, or is the need clear of the entire context?hf: wow! well — well, i've got three points here, right? first of all, to your first one: there's no question that we've changed, that we now want a person to love, and for thousands of years, we had to marry the right person from the right background and right kin connection. and in fact, in my studies of 5,000 people every year, i ask them, "what are you looking for?" and every single year, over 97 percent say —ep: the list grows —hf: well, no. the basic thing is over 97 percent of people want somebody that respects them, somebody they can trust and confide in, somebody who makes them laugh, somebody who makes enough time for them and somebody who they find physically attractive. that never changes. and there's certainly — you know, there's two parts —ep: but you know how i call that? that's not what people used to say —hf: that's exactly right.ep: they said they wanted somebody with whom they have companionship, economic support, children. we went from a production economy to a service economy. we did it in the larger culture, and we're doing it in marriage.hf: right, no question about it. but it's interesting, the millennials actually want to be very good parents, whereas the generation above them wants to have a very fine marriage but is not as focused on being a good parent. you see all of these nuances.there's two basic parts of personality: there's your culture — everything you grew up to do and believe and say — and there's your temperament. basically, what i've been talking about is your temperament. and that temperament is certainly going to change with changing times and changing beliefs.and in terms of the paradox of choice, there's no question about it that this is a pickle. there were millions of years where you found that sweet boy at the other side of the water hole, and you went for it.ep: yes, but you —hf: i do want to say one more thing. the bottom line is, in hunting and gathering societies, they tended to have two or three partners during the course of their lives. they weren't square! and i'm not suggesting that we do, but the bottom line is, we've always had alternatives. mankind is always — in fact, the brain is well-built to what we call "equilibrate," to try and decide: do i come, do i stay? do i go, do i stay? what are the opportunities here? how do i handle this there? and so i think we're seeing another play-out of that now.ks: well, thank you both so much. i think you're going to have a million dinner partners for tonight! thank you, thank you.<title = "What you need to know about CRISPR">
<tags = "['CRISPR', 'DNA', 'biology', 'biomechanics', 'biotech', 'curiosity', 'disease', 'engineering', 'future', 'genetics', 'innovation', 'molecular biology', 'nanoscale', 'nature', 'potential', 'science', 'technology', 'virus']">
<occupation = "Biologist, community science advocate">
so, has everybody heard of crispr? i would be shocked if you hadn't.this is a technology — it's for genome editing — and it's so versatile and so controversial that it's sparking all sorts of really interesting conversations. should we bring back the woolly mammoth? should we edit a human embryo? and my personal favorite: how can we justify wiping out an entire species that we consider harmful to humans off the face of the earth, using this technology?this type of science is moving much faster than the regulatory mechanisms that govern it. and so, for the past six years, i've made it my personal mission to make sure that as many people as possible understand these types of technologies and their implications.now, crispr has been the subject of a huge media hype, and the words that are used most often are "easy" and "cheap." so what i want to do is drill down a little bit deeper and look into some of the myths and the realities around crispr.if you're trying to crispr a genome, the first thing that you have to do is damage the dna. the damage comes in the form of a double-strand break through the double helix. and then the cellular repair processes kick in, and then we convince those repair processes to make the edit that we want, and not a natural edit. that's how it works. it's a two-part system. you've got a cas9 protein and something called a guide rna. i like to think of it as a guided missile. so the cas9 — i love to anthropomorphize — so the cas9 is kind of this pac-man thing that wants to chew dna, and the guide rna is the leash that's keeping it out of the genome until it finds the exact spot where it matches. and the combination of those two is called crispr. it's a system that we stole from an ancient, ancient bacterial immune system.the part that's amazing about it is that the guide rna, only 20 letters of it, are what target the system. this is really easy to design, and it's really cheap to buy. so that's the part that is modular in the system; everything else stays the same. this makes it a remarkably easy and powerful system to use.the guide rna and the cas9 protein complex together go bouncing along the genome, and when they find a spot where the guide rna matches, then it inserts between the two strands of the double helix, it rips them apart, that triggers the cas9 protein to cut, and all of a sudden, you've got a cell that's in total panic because now it's got a piece of dna that's broken.what does it do? it calls its first responders. there are two major repair pathways. the first just takes the dna and shoves the two pieces back together. this isn't a very efficient system, because what happens is sometimes a base drops out or a base is added. it's an ok way to maybe, like, knock out a gene, but it's not the way that we really want to do genome editing.the second repair pathway is a lot more interesting. in this repair pathway, it takes a homologous piece of dna. and now mind you, in a diploid organism like people, we've got one copy of our genome from our mom and one from our dad, so if one gets damaged, it can use the other chromosome to repair it. so that's where this comes from. the repair is made, and now the genome is safe again.the way that we can hijack this is we can feed it a false piece of dna, a piece that has homology on both ends but is different in the middle. so now, you can put whatever you want in the center and the cell gets fooled. so you can change a letter, you can take letters out, but most importantly, you can stuff new dna in, kind of like a trojan horse.crispr is going to be amazing, in terms of the number of different scientific advances that it's going to catalyze. the thing that's special about it is this modular targeting system. i mean, we've been shoving dna into organisms for years, right? but because of the modular targeting system, we can actually put it exactly where we want it.the thing is that there's a lot of talk about it being cheap and it being easy. and i run a community lab. i'm starting to get emails from people that say stuff like,"hey, can i come to your open night and, like, maybe use crispr and engineer my genome?"(laugher)like, seriously.i'm, "no, you can't." "but i've heard it's cheap. i've heard it's easy."we're going to explore that a little bit. so, how cheap is it? yeah, it is cheap in comparison. it's going to take the cost of the average materials for an experiment from thousands of dollars to hundreds of dollars, and it cuts the time a lot, too. it can cut it from weeks to days. that's great. you still need a professional lab to do the work in; you're not going to do anything meaningful outside of a professional lab. i mean, don't listen to anyone who says you can do this sort of stuff on your kitchen table. it's really not easy to do this kind of work. not to mention, there's a patent battle going on, so even if you do invent something, the broad institute and uc berkeley are in this incredible patent battle. it's really fascinating to watch it happen, because they're accusing each other of fraudulent claims and then they've got people saying, "oh, well, i signed my notebook here or there." this isn't going to be settled for years. and when it is, you can bet you're going to pay someone a really hefty licensing fee in order to use this stuff. so, is it really cheap? well, it's cheap if you're doing basic research and you've got a lab.how about easy? let's look at that claim. the devil is always in the details. we don't really know that much about cells. they're still kind of black boxes. for example, we don't know why some guide rnas work really well and some guide rnas don't. we don't know why some cells want to do one repair pathway and some cells would rather do the other.and besides that, there's the whole problem of getting the system into the cell in the first place. in a petri dish, that's not that hard, but if you're trying to do it on a whole organism, it gets really tricky. it's ok if you use something like blood or bone marrow — those are the targets of a lot of research now.there was a great story of some little girl who they saved from leukemia by taking the blood out, editing it, and putting it back with a precursor of crispr. and this is a line of research that people are going to do. but right now, if you want to get into the whole body, you're probably going to have to use a virus. so you take the virus, you put the crispr into it, you let the virus infect the cell. but now you've got this virus in there, and we don't know what the long-term effects of that are. plus, crispr has some off-target effects, a very small percentage, but they're still there. what's going to happen over time with that?these are not trivial questions, and there are scientists that are trying to solve them, and they will eventually, hopefully, be solved. but it ain't plug-and-play, not by a long shot. so: is it really easy? well, if you spend a few years working it out in your particular system, yes, it is.now the other thing is, we don't really know that much about how to make a particular thing happen by changing particular spots in the genome. we're a long way away from figuring out how to give a pig wings, for example. or even an extra leg — i'd settle for an extra leg. that would be kind of cool, right? but what is happening is that crispr is being used by thousands and thousands of scientists to do really, really important work, like making better models of diseases in animals, for example, or for taking pathways that produce valuable chemicals and getting them into industrial production in fermentation vats, or even doing really basic research on what genes do.this is the story of crispr we should be telling, and i don't like it that the flashier aspects of it are drowning all of this out. lots of scientists did a lot of work to make crispr happen, and what's interesting to me is that these scientists are being supported by our society.think about it. we've got an infrastructure that allows a certain percentage of people to spend all their time doing research. that makes us all the inventors of crispr, and i would say that makes us all the shepherds of crispr. we all have a responsibility.so i would urge you to really learn about these types of technologies, because, really, only in that way are we going to be able to guide the development of these technologies, the use of these technologies and make sure that, in the end, it's a positive outcome — for both the planet and for us.thanks. <title = "Immigrant voices make democracy stronger">
<tags = "['TEDNYC', 'United States', 'community', 'democracy', 'government', 'identity', 'immigration', 'motivation', 'politics', 'social change', 'society']">
<occupation = "Immigration scholar">
good evening. my journey to this stage began when i came to america at the age of 17. you see, i'm one of the 84 million americans who are immigrants or children of immigrants. each of us has a dream when we come here, a dream that usually has to be rewritten and always has to be repurposed. i was one of the lucky ones. my revised dream led me to the work i do today: training immigrants to run for public office and leading a movement for inclusive democracy.but i don't want you to think it was a cakewalk, that america opened its arms wide and welcomed me. it's still not doing that. and i've learned a few lessons along the way that i wanted to share with you, because i think that together we can make american democracy better and stronger.i was born in india, the world's largest democracy, and when i was four, my family moved to belize, the world's smallest democracy perhaps. and at the age of 17, i moved to the united states, the world's greatest democracy. i came because i wanted to study english literature. you see, as a child, i buried my nose in books, and i thought, why not make a living doing that as an adult? but after i graduated from college and got a graduate degree, i found myself moving from one less ideal job to another. maybe it was the optimism that i had about america that made me take a while to understand that things were not going to change. the door that i thought was open was actually just slightly ajar — this door of america that would open wide if you had the right name, the right skin color, the right networks, but could just slam in your face if you had the wrong religion, the wrong immigration status, the wrong skin color. and i just couldn't accept that.so i started a career as a social entrepreneur, starting an organization for young people like myself — i was young at the time that i started it — who traced their heritage to the indian subcontinent. in that work, i became and advocate for south asians and other immigrants. i lobbied members of congress on policy issues. i volunteered on election day to do exit polling. but i couldn't vote, and i couldn't run for office. so in 2000, when it was announced that the citizenship application fee was going to more than double from 95 dollars to 225 dollars, i decided it was time to apply before i could no longer afford it. i filled out a long application, answering questions about my current and my past affiliations. and once the application was submitted, there were fingerprints to be taken, a test to study for, endless hours of waiting in line. you might call it extreme vetting. and then in december of 2000, i joined hundreds of other immigrants in a hall in brooklyn where we pledged our loyalty to a country that we had long considered home. my journey from international student to american citizen took 16 years, a short timeline when you compare it to other immigrant stories.and soon after i had taken that formal step to becoming an american, the attacks of september 11, 2001, changed the immigration landscape for decades to come. my city, new york city, was reeling and healing, and in the midst of it, we were in an election cycle.two things happened as we coped with loss and recovery in new york city. voters elected michael bloomberg mayor of new york city. we also adopted by ballot referendum the office of immigrant affairs for the city of new york. five months after that election, the newly elected mayor appointed me the first commissioner of immigrant affairs for this newly established office.i want you to come back to that time. i was a young immigrant woman from belize. i had basically floundered in various jobs in america before i started a community-based organization in a church basement in queens. the attacks of september 11 sent shock waves through my community. people who were members of my family, young people i had worked with, were experiencing harassment at schools, at workplaces and in airports. and now i was going to represent their concerns in government. no job felt more perfect for me.and here are two things i learned when i became commissioner. first, well-meaning new yorkers who were in city government holding government positions had no idea how scared immigrants were of law enforcement. most of us don't really know the difference, do we, between a sheriff and local police and the fbi. and most of us, when we see someone in uniform going through our neighborhoods feel curiosity, if not concern. so if you're an undocumented parent, every day when you say goodbye to your child, send them off to school and go to work, you don't know what the chances are that you're going to see them at the end of the day. because a raid at your workplace, a chance encounter with local police could change the course of your life forever.the second thing i learned is that when people like me, who understood that fear, who had learned a new language, who had navigated new systems, when people like us were sitting at the table, we advocated for our communities' needs in a way that no one else could or would. i understood what that feeling of fear was like. people in my family were experiencing it. young people i had worked with were being harassed, not just by classmates, but also by their teachers. my husband, then boyfriend, thought twice before he put a backpack on or grew a beard because he traveled so much.what i learned in 2001 was that my vote mattered but that my voice and vantage point also mattered. and it's these three things — immigrants' votes, voices and vantage points — that i think can help make our democracy stronger. we actually have the power to change the outcome of elections, to introduce new issues into the policy debate and to change the face of the pale, male, stale leadership that we have in our country today.so how do we do that? well, let's talk first about votes. it will come as no surprise to you that the majority of voters in america are white. but it might surprise you to know that one in three voters are black, latino or asian. but here's the thing: it doesn't just matter who can vote, it matters who does vote. so in 2012, half of the latino and asian-american voters did not vote.and these votes matter not just in presidential elections. they matter in local and state elections. in 2015, lan diep, the eldest son of political refugees from vietnam, ran for a seat in the san jose city council. he lost that election by 13 votes. this year, he dusted off those campaign shoes and went back to run for that seat, and this time he won, by 12 votes. every one of our votes matters.and when people like lan are sitting at the policy table, they can make a difference. we need those voices. we need those voices in part because american leadership does not look like america's residents. there are over 500,000 local and state offices in america. fewer than 2 percent of those offices are held by asian-americans or latinos, the two largest immigrant groups in our country. in the city of yakima, washington, where 49 percent of the population is latino, there has never been a latino on the city council until this year. three newly elected latinas joined the yakima city council in 2016. one of them is carmen méndez. she is a first-generation college student. she grew up partly in colima, mexico, and partly in yakima, washington. she's a single mother, a community advocate. her voice on the yakima city council is advocating on behalf of the latino community and of all yakima residents. and she's a role model for her daughter and other latinas.but the third most untapped resource in american democracy is the vantage point that immigrants bring. we have fought to be here. we have come for economic and educational opportunity. we have come for political and religious freedom. we have come in the pursuit of love. that dedication, that commitment to america we also bring to public service. people like athena salman, who just last week won the primary for a seat in the arizona state house. athena's father grew up in the west bank and moved to chicago, where he met her mother. her mother is part italian, part mexican and part german. together they moved to arizona and built a life. athena, when she gets to the statehouse, is going to fight for things like education funding that will help give families like hers a leg up so they can achieve the financial stability that we all are looking for.immigrants' votes, voices and vantage points are what we all need to work to include in american democracy. it's not just my work. it's also yours. and it's not going to be easy. we never know what putting a new factor into an equation will do. and it's a little scary. you're scared that i'm going to take away your place at the table, and i'm scared that i'm never going to get a place at the table. and we're all scared that we're going to lose this country that we know and love. i'm scared you're going to take it away from me, and you're scared i'm going to take it away from you.look, it's been a rough election year, a reminder that people with my immigration history could be removed at the whim of a leader. but i have fought to be in this country and i continue to do so every day. so my optimism never wavers, because i know that there are millions of immigrants just like me, in front of me, behind me and all around me. it's our country, too.thank you. <title = "We can start winning the war against cancer">
<tags = "['TEDx', 'brain', 'cancer', 'chemistry', 'health', 'illness', 'innovation', 'medical imaging', 'medical research', 'medicine', 'neuroscience', 'science', 'technology']">
<occupation = "Biologist, electrical engineer">
"we're declaring war against cancer, and we will win this war by 2015."this is what the us congress and the national cancer institute declared just a few years ago, in 2003. now, i don't know about you, but i don't buy that. i don't think we quite won this war yet, and i don't think anyone here will question that. now, i will argue that a primary reason why we're not winning this war against cancer is because we're fighting blindly.i'm going to start by sharing with you a story about a good friend of mine. his name is ehud, and a few years ago, ehud was diagnosed with brain cancer. and not just any type of brain cancer: he was diagnosed with one of the most deadly forms of brain cancer. in fact, it was so deadly that the doctors told him that they only have 12 months, and during those 12 months, they have to find a treatment. they have to find a cure, and if they cannot find a cure, he will die.now, the good news, they said, is that there are tons of different treatments to choose from, but the bad news is that in order for them to tell if a treatment is even working or not, well, that takes them about three months or so. so they cannot try that many things.well, ehud is now going into his first treatment, and during that first treatment, just a few days into that treatment, i'm meeting with him, and he tells me, "adam, i think this is working. i think we really lucked out here. something is happening."and i ask him, "really? how do you know that, ehud?"and he says, "well, i feel so terrible inside. something's gotta be working up there. it just has to."well, unfortunately, three months later, we got the news, it didn't work. and so ehud goes into his second treatment. and again, the same story. "it feels so bad, something's gotta be working there." and then three months later, again we get bad news. ehud is going into his third treatment, and then his fourth treatment. and then, as predicted, ehud dies.now, when someone really close to you is going through such a huge struggle, you get really swamped with emotions. a lot of things are going through your head. for me, it was mostly outrage. i was just outraged that, how come this is the best that we can offer? and i started looking more and more into this. as it turns out, this is not just the best that doctors could offer ehud. it's not just the best doctors could offer patients with brain cancer generally. we're actually not doing that well all across the board with cancer.i picked up one of those statistics, and i'm sure some of you have seen those statistics before. this is going to show you here how many patients actually died of cancer, in this case females in the united states, ever since the 1930s. you'll notice that there aren't that many things that have changed. it's still a huge issue. you'll see a few changes, though. you'll see lung cancer, for example, on the rise. thank you, cigarettes. and you'll also see that, for example, stomach cancer once used to be one of the biggest killers of all cancers, is essentially eliminated. now, why is that? anyone knows, by the way? why is it that humanity is no longer struck by stomach cancer? what was the huge, huge medical technology breakthrough that came to our world that saved humanity from stomach cancer? was it maybe a new drug, or a better diagnostic? you guys are right, yeah. it's the invention of the refrigerator, and the fact that we're no longer eating spoiled meats. so the best thing that happened to us so far in the medical arena in cancer research is the fact that the refrigerator was invented. and so — yeah, i know. we're not doing so well here. i don't want to miniaturize the progress and everything that's been done in cancer research. look, there is like 50-plus years of good cancer research that discovered major, major things that taught us about cancer. but all that said, we have a lot of heavy lifting to still do ahead of us.again, i will argue that the primary reason why this is the case, why we have not done that remarkably well, is really we're fighting blindly here. and this is where medical imaging comes in. this is where my own work comes in.and so to give you a sense of the best medical imaging that's offered today to brain cancer patients, or actually generally to all cancer patients, take a look at this pet scan right here. let's see. there we go.so this is a pet/ct scan, and what you'll see in this pet/ct scan is the ct scan will show you where the bones are, and the pet scan will show you where tumors are. now, what you can see here is essentially a sugar molecule that was added a small little tag that is signaling to us outside of the body, "hey, i'm here." and those sugar molecules are injected into these patients by the billions, and they're going all over the body looking for cells that are hungry for sugar. you'll see that the heart, for example, lights up there. that's because the heart needs a lot of sugar. you'll also see that the bladder lights up there. that's because the bladder is the thing that's clearing the sugar away from our body. and then you'll see a few other hot spots, and these are in fact the tumors.now, this is a really a wonderful technology. for the first time it allowed us to look into someone's body without picking up each and every one of the cells and putting them under the microscope, but in a noninvasive way allowing us to look into someone's body and ask, "hey, has the cancer metastasized? where is it?" and the pet scans here are showing you very clearly where are these hot spots, where is the tumor.so as miraculous as this might seem, unfortunately, well, it's not that great. you see, those small little hot spots there. can anyone guess how many cancer cells are in any one of these tumors? so it's about 100 million cancer cells, and let me make sure that this number sunk in. in each and every one of these small little blips that you're seeing on the image, there needs to be at least 100 million cancer cells in order for it to be detected. now, if that seemed to you like a very large number, it is a very large number. this is in fact an incredibly large number, because what we really need in order to pick up something early enough to do something about it, to do something meaningful about it, well, we need to pick up tumors that are a thousand cells in size, and ideally just a handful of cells in size. so we're clearly pretty far away from this.so we're going to play a little experiment here. i'm going to ask each of you to now play and imagine that you are brain surgeons. and you guys are now at an operating room, and there's a patient in front of you, and your task is to make sure that the tumor is out. so you're looking down at the patient, the skin and the skull have already been removed, so you're looking at the brain. and all you know about this patient is that there's a tumor about the size of a golf ball or so in the right frontal lobe of this person's brain. and that's more or less it. so you're looking down, and unfortunately everything looks the same, because brain cancer tissue and healthy brain tissue really just look the same. and so you're going in with your thumb, and you start to press a little bit on the brain, because tumors tend to be a little harder, stiffer, and so you go in and go a little bit like this and say, "it seems like the tumor is right there." then you take out your knife and start cutting the tumor piece by piece by piece. and as you're taking the tumor out, then you're getting to a stage where you think, "alright, i'm done. i took out everything." and at this stage, if that's — so far everything sounded, like, pretty crazy — you're now about to face the most challenging decision of your life here. because now you need to decide, should i stop here and let this patient go, risking that there might be some leftover cancer cells behind that i just couldn't see, or should i take away some extra margins, typically about an inch or so around the tumor just to be sure that i removed everything?so this is not a simple decision to make, and unfortunately this is the decision that brain cancer surgeons have to take every single day as they're seeing their patients.and so i remember talking to a few friends of mine in the lab, and we say, "boy, there's got to be a better way." but not just like you tell a friend that there's got to be a better way. there's just got to be a better way here. this is just incredible.and so we looked back. remember those pet scans i told you about, the sugar and so on. we said, hey, how about instead of using sugar molecules, let's maybe take tiny, tiny little particles made of gold, and let's program them with some interesting chemistry around them. let's program them to look for cancer cells. and then we will inject these gold particles into these patients by the billions again, and we'll have them go all over the body, and just like secret agents, if you will, go and walk by every single cell in our body and knock on the door of that cell, and ask, "are you a cancer cell or are you a healthy cell? if you're a healthy cell, we're moving on. if you're a cancer cell, we're sticking in and shining out and telling us, "hey, look at me, i'm here." and they'll do it through some interesting cameras that we developed in the lab. and once we see that, maybe we can guide brain cancer surgeons towards taking only the tumor and leaving the healthy brain alone. and so we've tested that, and boy, this works well.so i'm going to show you an example now. what you're looking at here is an image of a mouse's brain, and we've implanted into this mouse's brain a small little tumor. and so this tumor is now growing in this mouse's brain, and then we've taken a doctor and asked the doctor to please operate on the mouse as if that was a patient, and take out piece by piece out of the tumor. and while he's doing that, we're going to take images to see where the gold particles are. and so we're going to first start by injecting these gold particles into this mouse, and we're going to see right here at the very left there that image at the bottom is the image that shows where the gold particles are. the nice thing is that these gold particles actually made it all the way to the tumor, and then they shine out and tell us, "hey, we're here. here's the tumor."so now we can see the tumor, but we're not showing this to the doctor yet. we're asking the doctor, now please start cutting away the tumor, and you'll see here the doctor just took the first quadrant of the tumor and you see that first quadrant is now missing. the doctor then took the second quadrant, the third, and now it appears to be everything. and so at this stage, the doctor came back to us and said, "alright, i'm done. what do you want me to do? should i keep things as they are or do you want me to take some extra margins around?"and then we said, "well, hang on." we told the doctor, "you've missed those two spots, so rather than taking huge margins around, only take out those tiny little areas. take them out, and then let's take a look."and so the doctor took them away, and lo and behold, the cancer is now completely gone. now, the important thing is that it's not just that the cancer is completely gone from this person's brain, or from this mouse's brain. the most important thing is that we did not have to take huge amounts of healthy brain in the process. and so now we can actually imagine a world where doctors and surgeons, as they take away a tumor, they actually know what to take out, and they no longer have to guess with their thumb.now, here's why it's extremely important to take those tiny little leftover tumors. those leftover tumors, even if it's just a handful of cells, they will grow to recur the tumor, for the tumor to come back. in fact, the reason why 80 to 90 percent of those brain cancer surgeries ultimately fail is because of those small little extra margins that were left positive, those small little leftover tumors that were left there.so this is clearly very nice, but what i really want to share with you is where i think we're heading from here. and so in my lab at stanford, my students and i are asking, what should we be working on now? and i think where medical imaging is heading to is the ability to look into the human body and actually see each and every one of these cells separately. the ability like this would allow us to actually pick up tumors way, way earlier in the process, way before it's 100 million cells inside, so we can actually do something about it.an ability to see each and every one of the cells might also allow us to ask insightful questions. so in the lab, we are now getting to a point where we can actually start asking these cancer cells real questions, like, for example, are you responding to the treatment we are giving you or not? so if you're not responding, we'll know to stop the treatment right away, days into the treatment, not three months. and so also for patients like ehud that are going through these nasty, nasty chemotherapy drugs, for them not to suffer through those horrendous side effects of the drugs when the drugs are in fact not even helping them.so to be frank here, we're pretty far away from winning the war against cancer, just to be realistic. but at least i am hopeful that we should be able to fight this war with better medical imaging techniques in the way that is not blind.thank you. <title = "What reality are you creating for yourself?">
<tags = "['Blindness', 'brain', 'choice', 'fear', 'humanity', 'identity', 'motivation', 'personal growth', 'success']">
<occupation = "Author, entrepreneur">
when dorothy was a little girl, she was fascinated by her goldfish. her father explained to her that fish swim by quickly wagging their tails to propel themselves through the water. without hesitation, little dorothy responded, "yes, daddy, and fish swim backwards by wagging their heads." in her mind, it was a fact as true as any other. fish swim backwards by wagging their heads. she believed it.our lives are full of fish swimming backwards. we make assumptions and faulty leaps of logic. we harbor bias. we know that we are right, and they are wrong. we fear the worst. we strive for unattainable perfection. we tell ourselves what we can and cannot do. in our minds, fish swim by in reverse frantically wagging their heads and we don't even notice them.i'm going to tell you five facts about myself. one fact is not true. one: i graduated from harvard at 19 with an honors degree in mathematics. two: i currently run a construction company in orlando. three: i starred on a television sitcom. four: i lost my sight to a rare genetic eye disease. five: i served as a law clerk to two us supreme court justices. which fact is not true? actually, they're all true. yeah. they're all true. at this point, most people really only care about the television show. i know this from experience. ok, so the show was nbc's "saved by the bell: the new class." and i played weasel wyzell, who was the sort of dorky, nerdy character on the show, which made it a very major acting challenge for me as a 13-year-old boy. now, did you struggle with number four, my blindness? why is that? we make assumptions about so-called disabilities. as a blind man, i confront others' incorrect assumptions about my abilities every day. my point today is not about my blindness, however. it's about my vision. going blind taught me to live my life eyes wide open. it taught me to spot those backwards-swimming fish that our minds create. going blind cast them into focus.what does it feel like to see? it's immediate and passive. you open your eyes and there's the world. seeing is believing. sight is truth. right? well, that's what i thought.then, from age 12 to 25, my retinas progressively deteriorated. my sight became an increasingly bizarre carnival funhouse hall of mirrors and illusions. the salesperson i was relieved to spot in a store was really a mannequin. reaching down to wash my hands, i suddenly saw it was a urinal i was touching, not a sink, when my fingers felt its true shape. a friend described the photograph in my hand, and only then i could see the image depicted. objects appeared, morphed and disappeared in my reality. it was difficult and exhausting to see. i pieced together fragmented, transitory images, consciously analyzed the clues, searched for some logic in my crumbling kaleidoscope, until i saw nothing at all.i learned that what we see is not universal truth. it is not objective reality. what we see is a unique, personal, virtual reality that is masterfully constructed by our brain.let me explain with a bit of amateur neuroscience. your visual cortex takes up about 30 percent of your brain. that's compared to approximately eight percent for touch and two to three percent for hearing. every second, your eyes can send your visual cortex as many as two billion pieces of information. the rest of your body can send your brain only an additional billion. so sight is one third of your brain by volume and can claim about two thirds of your brain's processing resources. it's no surprise then that the illusion of sight is so compelling. but make no mistake about it: sight is an illusion.here's where it gets interesting. to create the experience of sight, your brain references your conceptual understanding of the world, other knowledge, your memories, opinions, emotions, mental attention. all of these things and far more are linked in your brain to your sight. these linkages work both ways, and usually occur subconsciously. so for example, what you see impacts how you feel, and the way you feel can literally change what you see. numerous studies demonstrate this. if you are asked to estimate the walking speed of a man in a video, for example, your answer will be different if you're told to think about cheetahs or turtles. a hill appears steeper if you've just exercised, and a landmark appears farther away if you're wearing a heavy backpack. we have arrived at a fundamental contradiction. what you see is a complex mental construction of your own making, but you experience it passively as a direct representation of the world around you. you create your own reality, and you believe it. i believed mine until it broke apart. the deterioration of my eyes shattered the illusion.you see, sight is just one way we shape our reality. we create our own realities in many other ways. let's take fear as just one example. your fears distort your reality. under the warped logic of fear, anything is better than the uncertain. fear fills the void at all costs, passing off what you dread for what you know, offering up the worst in place of the ambiguous, substituting assumption for reason. psychologists have a great term for it: awfulizing. right? fear replaces the unknown with the awful. now, fear is self-realizing. when you face the greatest need to look outside yourself and think critically, fear beats a retreat deep inside your mind, shrinking and distorting your view, drowning your capacity for critical thought with a flood of disruptive emotions. when you face a compelling opportunity to take action, fear lulls you into inaction, enticing you to passively watch its prophecies fulfill themselves.when i was diagnosed with my blinding disease, i knew blindness would ruin my life. blindness was a death sentence for my independence. it was the end of achievement for me. blindness meant i would live an unremarkable life, small and sad, and likely alone. i knew it. this was a fiction born of my fears, but i believed it. it was a lie, but it was my reality, just like those backwards-swimming fish in little dorothy's mind. if i had not confronted the reality of my fear, i would have lived it. i am certain of that.so how do you live your life eyes wide open? it is a learned discipline. it can be taught. it can be practiced. i will summarize very briefly.hold yourself accountable for every moment, every thought, every detail. see beyond your fears. recognize your assumptions. harness your internal strength. silence your internal critic. correct your misconceptions about luck and about success. accept your strengths and your weaknesses, and understand the difference. open your hearts to your bountiful blessings.your fears, your critics, your heroes, your villains — they are your excuses, rationalizations, shortcuts, justifications, your surrender. they are fictions you perceive as reality. choose to see through them. choose to let them go. you are the creator of your reality. with that empowerment comes complete responsibility.i chose to step out of fear's tunnel into terrain uncharted and undefined. i chose to build there a blessed life. far from alone, i share my beautiful life with dorothy, my beautiful wife, with our triplets, whom we call the tripskys, and with the latest addition to the family, sweet baby clementine.what do you fear? what lies do you tell yourself? how do you embellish your truth and write your own fictions? what reality are you creating for yourself?in your career and personal life, in your relationships, and in your heart and soul, your backwards-swimming fish do you great harm. they exact a toll in missed opportunities and unrealized potential, and they engender insecurity and distrust where you seek fulfillment and connection. i urge you to search them out.helen keller said that the only thing worse than being blind is having sight but no vision. for me, going blind was a profound blessing, because blindness gave me vision. i hope you can see what i see.thank you. bruno giussani: isaac, before you leave the stage, just a question. this is an audience of entrepreneurs, of doers, of innovators. you are a ceo of a company down in florida, and many are probably wondering, how is it to be a blind ceo? what kind of specific challenges do you have, and how do you overcome them?isaac lidsky: well, the biggest challenge became a blessing. i don't get visual feedback from people. bg: what's that noise there? il: yeah. so, for example, in my leadership team meetings, i don't see facial expressions or gestures. i've learned to solicit a lot more verbal feedback. i basically force people to tell me what they think. and in this respect, it's become, like i said, a real blessing for me personally and for my company, because we communicate at a far deeper level, we avoid ambiguities, and most important, my team knows that what they think truly matters.bg: isaac, thank you for coming to ted. il: thank you, bruno. <title = "Ideas worth dating">
<tags = "['adventure', 'curiosity', 'entertainment', 'exploration', 'farming', 'friendship', 'gaming', 'garden', 'happiness', 'humor', 'love', 'math', 'personality', 'relationships']">
<occupation = "Actor, writer">
(music)rainn wilson: it takes its toll, being alone. i'm a little bit lost, and it's finally time to make a real connection. who am i?(drums)i'm a single white male, 45 years of age. i love animals. gainfully employed. i'm a people person. i keep fit. who am i looking for? i'm looking for my idea mate. are you that idea that matches with who i really am?(video) ron finley: how would you feel if you had no access to healthy food? gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do.rw: wow, we sure are getting our fingers dirty for a first date, huh?rf: gardening is the most therapeutic and defiant act you can do. people in these areas — they're exposed to crappy food. i want people to know that growing your own food is like printing your own money.rw: you're like a food superhero!rf: food is the problem and food is the solution.(music)erin mckean: i'm a lexicographer. my job is to put every word possible into the dictionary.rw: i love words, too — just as much as any lexi-ta-tographer. what if you love a word that you've just made up, like — i don't know — "scuberfinkles"?beau lotto: do you think you see reality?rw: well, i'm a little nearsighted, but yeah.bl: well, you can't — i mean, your brain has no access to this world. in fact, even the sensory information that your eyes are receiving, your ears are receiving, is completely meaningless because it could mean anything. that tree could be a large object far away or a small object up close, and your brain has no way of knowing.rw: once i thought i saw bigfoot but it was just a german shepherd.isabel behncke izquierdo: bonobos are, together with chimpanzees, your closest living relatives. bonobos have frequent and promiscuous sex to manage conflict and solve social issues.rw: i'm just curious: do we have any conflict that needs managing or social issues to resolve?ibi: remember — you're on a date with my idea, not me.jane mcgonigal: this is the face of someone who, against all odds, is on the verge of an epic win.rw: an epic win?jm: an epic win is an outcome so extraordinarily positive, you didn't even know it was possible until you achieved it.you're not making the face. you're making the "i'm not good at life" face.rw: arthur, i want to be really honest with you. i am seeing other ideas. ok? i'm dating around. that's the situation.arthur benjamin: i'd say this: mathematics is not just solving for x, it's also figuring out why.rw: do you want to get some pie?ab: pi? 3.14159265358979 —reggie watts: if we're going to do something, we've got to just make a decision. because without a decision we're left powerless. without power, we have nothing to supply the chain of those who are truly curious to solve all of our current conditions.rw: and, "if you choose not to decide, you still have made a choice" — rush.jm: yes! this is the face we need to see on millions of problem solvers worldwide, as we try to tackle the challenges of the next century.rw: so, are we going dutch?ab: 3846264338327950 28841... 971?rw: one night, want to go to a movie or something?rf: hell, no! let's go plant some shit!rw: let's plant some shit! good, now what is this that i'm planting?bonobos!ibi: bonobos! (laughs)bonobos.rwatts: um, interested much?rw: i want to have your idea baby.rwatts: well, you know what they say in russia.rw: hm?rwatts: "scuberfinckle."(bottles clink)<title = "4 reasons to learn a new language">
<tags = "['communication', 'education', 'language', 'online video', 'personal growth', 'world cultures', 'writing']">
<occupation = "Linguist">
the language i'm speaking right now is on its way to becoming the world's universal language, for better or for worse. let's face it, it's the language of the internet, it's the language of finance, it's the language of air traffic control, of popular music, diplomacy — english is everywhere.now, mandarin chinese is spoken by more people, but more chinese people are learning english than english speakers are learning chinese. last i heard, there are two dozen universities in china right now teaching all in english. english is taking over.and in addition to that, it's been predicted that at the end of the century almost all of the languages that exist now — there are about 6,000 — will no longer be spoken. there will only be some hundreds left. and on top of that, it's at the point where instant translation of live speech is not only possible, but it gets better every year.the reason i'm reciting those things to you is because i can tell that we're getting to the point where a question is going to start being asked, which is: why should we learn foreign languages — other than if english happens to be foreign to one? why bother to learn another one when it's getting to the point where almost everybody in the world will be able to communicate in one?i think there are a lot of reasons, but i first want to address the one that you're probably most likely to have heard of, because actually it's more dangerous than you might think. and that is the idea that a language channels your thoughts, that the vocabulary and the grammar of different languages gives everybody a different kind of acid trip, so to speak. that is a marvelously enticing idea, but it's kind of fraught.so it's not that it's untrue completely. so for example, in french and spanish the word for table is, for some reason, marked as feminine. so, "la table," "la mesa," you just have to deal with it. it has been shown that if you are a speaker of one of those languages and you happen to be asked how you would imagine a table talking, then much more often than could possibly be an accident, a french or a spanish speaker says that the table would talk with a high and feminine voice. so if you're french or spanish, to you, a table is kind of a girl, as opposed to if you are an english speaker.it's hard not to love data like that, and many people will tell you that that means that there's a worldview that you have if you speak one of those languages. but you have to watch out, because imagine if somebody put us under the microscope, the us being those of us who speak english natively. what is the worldview from english?so for example, let's take an english speaker. up on the screen, that is bono. he speaks english. i presume he has a worldview. now, that is donald trump. in his way, he speaks english as well. and here is ms. kardashian, and she is an english speaker, too. so here are three speakers of the english language. what worldview do those three people have in common? what worldview is shaped through the english language that unites them? it's a highly fraught concept. and so gradual consensus is becoming that language can shape thought, but it tends to be in rather darling, obscure psychological flutters. it's not a matter of giving you a different pair of glasses on the world.now, if that's the case, then why learn languages? if it isn't going to change the way you think, what would the other reasons be? there are some. one of them is that if you want to imbibe a culture, if you want to drink it in, if you want to become part of it, then whether or not the language channels the culture — and that seems doubtful — if you want to imbibe the culture, you have to control to some degree the language that the culture happens to be conducted in. there's no other way.there's an interesting illustration of this. i have to go slightly obscure, but really you should seek it out. there's a movie by the canadian film director denys arcand — read out in english on the page, "dennis ar-cand," if you want to look him up. he did a film called "jesus of montreal." and many of the characters are vibrant, funny, passionate, interesting french-canadian, french-speaking women. there's one scene closest to the end, where they have to take a friend to an anglophone hospital. in the hospital, they have to speak english. now, they speak english but it's not their native language, they'd rather not speak english. and they speak it more slowly, they have accents, they're not idiomatic. suddenly these characters that you've fallen in love with become husks of themselves, they're shadows of themselves.to go into a culture and to only ever process people through that kind of skrim curtain is to never truly get the culture. and so to the extent that hundreds of languages will be left, one reason to learn them is because they are tickets to being able to participate in the culture of the people who speak them, just by virtue of the fact that it is their code. so that's one reason.second reason: it's been shown that if you speak two languages, dementia is less likely to set in, and that you are probably a better multitasker. and these are factors that set in early, and so that ought to give you some sense of when to give junior or juniorette lessons in another language. bilingualism is healthy.and then, third — languages are just an awful lot of fun. much more fun than we're often told. so for example, arabic: "kataba," he wrote, "yaktubu," he writes, she writes. "uktub," write, in the imperative. what do those things have in common? all those things have in common the consonants sitting in the middle like pillars. they stay still, and the vowels dance around the consonants. who wouldn't want to roll that around in their mouths? you can get that from hebrew, you can get that from ethiopia's main language, amharic. that's fun.or languages have different word orders. learning how to speak with different word order is like driving on the different side of a street if you go to certain country, or the feeling that you get when you put witch hazel around your eyes and you feel the tingle. a language can do that to you.so for example, "the cat in the hat comes back," a book that i'm sure we all often return to, like "moby dick." one phrase in it is, "do you know where i found him? do you know where he was? he was eating cake in the tub, yes he was!" fine. now, if you learn that in mandarin chinese, then you have to master, "you can know, i did where him find? he was tub inside gorging cake, no mistake gorging chewing!" that just feels good. imagine being able to do that for years and years at a time.or, have you ever learned any cambodian? me either, but if i did, i would get to roll around in my mouth not some baker's dozen of vowels like english has, but a good 30 different vowels scooching and oozing around in the cambodian mouth like bees in a hive. that is what a language can get you.and more to the point, we live in an era when it's never been easier to teach yourself another language. it used to be that you had to go to a classroom, and there would be some diligent teacher — some genius teacher in there — but that person was only in there at certain times and you had to go then, and then was not most times. you had to go to class. if you didn't have that, you had something called a record. i cut my teeth on those. there was only so much data on a record, or a cassette, or even that antique object known as a cd. other than that you had books that didn't work, that's just the way it was.today you can lay down — lie on your living room floor, sipping bourbon, and teach yourself any language that you want to with wonderful sets such as rosetta stone. i highly recommend the lesser known glossika as well. you can do it any time, therefore you can do it more and better. you can give yourself your morning pleasures in various languages. i take some "dilbert" in various languages every single morning; it can increase your skills. couldn't have done it 20 years ago when the idea of having any language you wanted in your pocket, coming from your phone, would have sounded like science fiction to very sophisticated people.so i highly recommend that you teach yourself languages other than the one that i'm speaking, because there's never been a better time to do it. it's an awful lot of fun. it won't change your mind, but it will most certainly blow your mind.thank you very much. <title = "How we talk about sexual assault online">
<tags = "['Internet', 'activism', 'communication', 'community', 'journalism', 'sexual violence', 'social change', 'social media', 'violence']">
<occupation = "Writer, activist">
it was april, last year. i was on an evening out with friends to celebrate one of their birthdays. we hadn't been all together for a couple of weeks; it was a perfect evening, as we were all reunited.at the end of the evening, i caught the last underground train back to the other side of london. the journey was smooth. i got back to my local station and i began the 10-minute walk home. as i turned the corner onto my street, my house in sight up ahead, i heard footsteps behind me that seemed to have approached out of nowhere and were picking up pace. before i had time to process what was happening, a hand was clapped around my mouth so that i could not breathe, and the young man behind me dragged me to the ground, beat my head repeatedly against the pavement until my face began to bleed, kicking me in the back and neck while he began to assault me, ripping off my clothes and telling me to "shut up," as i struggled to cry for help. with each smack of my head to the concrete ground, a question echoed through my mind that still haunts me today: "is this going to be how it all ends?"little could i have realized, i'd been followed the whole way from the moment i left the station. and hours later, i was standing topless and barelegged in front of the police, having the cuts and bruises on my naked body photographed for forensic evidence.now, there are few words to describe the all-consuming feelings of vulnerability, shame, upset and injustice that i was ridden with in that moment and for the weeks to come. but wanting to find a way to condense these feelings into something ordered that i could work through, i decided to do what felt most natural to me: i wrote about it.it started out as a cathartic exercise. i wrote a letter to my assaulter, humanizing him as "you," to identify him as part of the very community that he had so violently abused that night.stressing the tidal-wave effect of his actions, i wrote: "did you ever think of the people in your life? i don't know who the people in your life are. i don't know anything about you. but i do know this: you did not just attack me that night. i'm a daughter, i'm a friend, i'm a sister, i'm a pupil, i'm a cousin, i'm a niece, i'm a neighbor; i'm the employee who served everyone coffee in the café under the railway. and all the people who form these relations to me make up my community. and you assaulted every single one of them. you violated the truth that i will never cease to fight for, and which all of these people represent: that there are infinitely more good people in the world than bad."but, determined not to let this one incident make me lose faith in the solidarity in my community or humanity as a whole, i recalled the 7/7 terrorist bombings in july 2005 on london transport, and how the mayor of london at the time, and indeed my own parents, had insisted that we all get back on the tubes the next day, so we wouldn't be defined or changed by those that had made us feel unsafe.i told my attacker, "you've carried out your attack, but now i'm getting back on my tube. my community will not feel we are unsafe walking home after dark. we will get on the last tubes home, and we will walk up our streets alone, because we will not ingrain or submit to the idea that we are putting ourselves in danger in doing so. we will continue to come together, like an army, when any member of our community is threatened. and this is a fight you will not win."at the time of writing this letter — thank you. at the time of writing this letter, i was studying for my exams in oxford, and i was working on the local student paper there. despite being lucky enough to have friends and family supporting me, it was an isolating time. i didn't know anyone who'd been through this before; at least i didn't think i did. i'd read news reports, statistics, and knew how common sexual assault was, yet i couldn't actually name a single person that i'd heard speak out about an experience of this kind before.so in a somewhat spontaneous decision, i decided that i would publish my letter in the student paper, hoping to reach out to others in oxford that might have had a similar experience and be feeling the same way. at the end of the letter, i asked others to write in with their experiences under the hashtag, "#notguilty," to emphasize that survivors of assault could express themselves without feeling shame or guilt about what happened to them — to show that we could all stand up to sexual assault.what i never anticipated is that almost overnight, this published letter would go viral. soon, we were receiving hundreds of stories from men and women across the world, which we began to publish on a website i set up. and the hashtag became a campaign.there was an australian mother in her 40s who described how on an evening out, she was followed to the bathroom by a man who went to repeatedly grab her crotch. there was a man in the netherlands who described how he was date-raped on a visit to london and wasn't taken seriously by anyone he reported his case to. i had personal facebook messages from people in india and south america, saying, how can we bring the message of the campaign there? one of the first contributions we had was from a woman called nikki, who described growing up, being molested my her own father. and i had friends open up to me about experiences ranging from those that happened last week to those that happened years ago, that i'd had no idea about.and the more we started to receive these messages, the more we also started to receive messages of hope — people feeling empowered by this community of voices standing up to sexual assault and victim-blaming. one woman called olivia, after describing how she was attacked by someone she had trusted and cared about for a long time, said, "i've read many of the stories posted here, and i feel hopeful that if so many women can move forward, then i can, too. i've been inspired by many, and i hope i can be as strong as them someday. i'm sure i will."people around the world began tweeting under this hashtag, and the letter was republished and covered by the national press, as well as being translated into several other languages worldwide.but something struck me about the media attention that this letter was attracting. for something to be front-page news, given the word "news" itself, we can assume it must be something new or something surprising. and yet sexual assault is not something new. sexual assault, along with other kinds of injustices, is reported in the media all the time. but through the campaign, these injustices were framed as not just news stories, they were firsthand experiences that had affected real people, who were creating, with the solidarity of others, what they needed and had previously lacked: a platform to speak out, the reassurance they weren't alone or to blame for what happened to them and open discussions that would help to reduce stigma around the issue. the voices of those directly affected were at the forefront of the story — not the voices of journalists or commentators on social media. and that's why the story was news.we live in an incredibly interconnected world with the proliferation of social media, which is of course a fantastic resource for igniting social change. but it's also made us increasingly reactive, from the smallest annoyances of, "oh, my train's been delayed," to the greatest injustices of war, genocides, terrorist attacks. our default response has become to leap to react to any kind of grievance by tweeting, facebooking, hastagging — anything to show others that we, too, have reacted.the problem with reacting in this manner en masse is it can sometimes mean that we don't actually react at all, not in the sense of actually doing anything, anyway. it might make ourselves feel better, like we've contributed to a group mourning or outrage, but it doesn't actually change anything. and what's more, it can sometimes drown out the voices of those directly affected by the injustice, whose needs must be heard.worrying, too, is the tendency for some reactions to injustice to build even more walls, being quick to point fingers with the hope of providing easy solutions to complex problems. one british tabloid, on the publication of my letter, branded a headline stating, "oxford student launches online campaign to shame attacker." but the campaign never meant to shame anyone. it meant to let people speak and to make others listen. divisive twitter trolls were quick to create even more injustice, commenting on my attacker's ethnicity or class to push their own prejudiced agendas. and some even accused me of feigning the whole thing to push, and i quote, my "feminist agenda of man-hating." i know, right? as if i'm going to be like, "hey guys! sorry i can't make it, i'm busy trying to hate the entire male population by the time i'm 30." now, i'm almost sure that these people wouldn't say the things they say in person. but it's as if because they might be behind a screen, in the comfort in their own home when on social media, people forget that what they're doing is a public act — that other people will be reading it and be affected by it.returning to my analogy of getting back on our trains, another main concern i have about this noise that escalates from our online responses to injustice is that it can very easily slip into portraying us as the affected party, which can lead to a sense of defeatism, a kind of mental barrier to seeing any opportunity for positivity or change after a negative situation.a couple of months before the campaign started or any of this happened to me, i went to a tedx event in oxford, and i saw zelda la grange speak, the former private secretary to nelson mandela. one of the stories she told really struck me. she spoke of when mandela was taken to court by the south african rugby union after he commissioned an inquiry into sports affairs. in the courtroom, he went up to the south african rugby union's lawyers, shook them by the hand and conversed with them, each in their own language. and zelda wanted to protest, saying they had no right to his respect after this injustice they had caused him.he turned to her and said, "you must never allow the enemy to determine the grounds for battle."at the time of hearing these words, i didn't really know why they were so important, but i felt they were, and i wrote them down in a notebook i had on me. but i've thought about this line a lot ever since.revenge, or the expression of hatred towards those who have done us injustice may feel like a human instinct in the face of wrong, but we need to break out of these cycles if we are to hope to transform negative events of injustice into positive social change. to do otherwise continues to let the enemy determine the grounds for battle, creates a binary, where we who have suffered become the affected, pitted against them, the perpetrators. and just like we got back on our tubes, we can't let our platforms for interconnectivity and community be the places that we settle for defeat.but i don't want to discourage a social media response, because i owe the development of the #notguilty campaign almost entirely to social media. but i do want to encourage a more considered approach to the way we use it to respond to injustice.the start, i think, is to ask ourselves two things. firstly: why do i feel this injustice? in my case, there were several answers to this. someone had hurt me and those who i loved, under the assumption they wouldn't have to be held to account or recognize the damage they had caused. not only that, but thousands of men and women suffer every day from sexual abuse, often in silence, yet it's still a problem we don't give the same airtime to as other issues. it's still an issue many people blame victims for.next, ask yourself: how, in recognizing these reasons, could i go about reversing them? with us, this was holding my attacker to account — and many others. it was calling them out on the effect they had caused. it was giving airtime to the issue of sexual assault, opening up discussions amongst friends, amongst families, in the media that had been closed for too long, and stressing that victims shouldn't feel to blame for what happened to them. we might still have a long way to go in solving this problem entirely. but in this way, we can begin to use social media as an active tool for social justice, as a tool to educate, to stimulate dialogues, to make those in positions of authority aware of an issue by listening to those directly affected by it.because sometimes these questions don't have easy answers. in fact, they rarely do. but this doesn't mean we still can't give them a considered response. in situations where you can't go about thinking how you'd reverse this feeling of injustice, you can still think, maybe not what you can do, but what you can not do. you can not build further walls by fighting injustice with more prejudice, more hatred. you can not speak over those directly affected by an injustice. and you can not react to injustice, only to forget about it the next day, just because the rest of twitter has moved on.sometimes not reacting instantly is, ironically, the best immediate course of action we can take. because we might be angry, upset and energized by injustice, but let's consider our responses. let us hold people to account, without descending into a culture that thrives off shaming and injustice ourselves. let us remember that distinction, so often forgotten by internet users, between criticism and insult. let us not forget to think before we speak, just because we might have a screen in front of us. and when we create noise on social media, let it not drown out the needs of those affected, but instead let it amplify their voices, so the internet becomes a place where you're not the exception if you speak out about something that has actually happened to you.all these considered approaches to injustice evoke the very keystones on which the internet was built: to network, to have signal, to connect — all these terms that imply bringing people together, not pushing people apart.because if you look up the word "justice" in the dictionary, before punishment, before administration of law or judicial authority, you get: "the maintenance of what is right." and i think there are few things more "right" in this world than bringing people together, than unions. and if we allow social media to deliver that, then it can deliver a very powerful form of justice, indeed.thank you very much. 